[10] Filing Form GSTR-1 - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/addinginvoices

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Adding Invoices to GSTR-1
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[11] Filing Form GSTR-1 - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/gstr1nilsms

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Filing Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS by Normal Taxpayer
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[12] Filing Form GSTR-1 - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - Overview of Filing
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=faq_nilreturngstr1.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Filing Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS
About Nil Form GSTR-1
1. When can Form GSTR-1 be filed as Nil?

Form GSTR-1 can be filed as a nil return if there are no outward supplies (including supplies on which tax is to be charged on reverse charge basis, zero rated supplies and deemed exports) during the month or quarter, for which the return is being filed for .

2. Who can file Nil Form GSTR-1?

Nil Form GSTR-1 for a tax period can be filed, if:

There are no Outward Supplies (including supplies on which tax is to be charged on reverse charge basis, zero rated supplies and deemed exports) during the month or quarter for which the return is being filed for

No Amendments is to be made to any of the supplies declared in an earlier return

No Credit or Debit Notes is to be declared / amended

No details of advances received for services is to be declared or adjusted

3. Is filing of Form GSTR-1 as Nil return mandatory?

Filing of Form GSTR-1 is mandatory for all normal (including SEZ Unit & SEZ developer) and casual taxpayers, even if there is no business activity in any particular tax period. So, for such tax period(s), the return can be filed as NIL (if all conditions for filing Nil return are satisfied).

4. From when can I file Nil Form GSTR-1 for a tax period?

A taxpayer can file Nil Form GSTR-1, anytime from 1st of the month subsequent of the tax period onwards. For example, Form GSTR-1 for the calendar month of April, can be filed from 1st May onwards. Form GSTR-1 for the quarter of April to June can be filed from 1st July onwards.

About Filing Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS
5. Can I file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS, instead of filing online through GST Portal?

Yes, you can file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS, instead of filing it through online mode on GST Portal.

6. Who is eligible to file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS?

Any taxpayer who fulfills below conditions, are eligible to file Nil Form GSTR-1, through SMS:

Taxpayer must be registered as Normal taxpayer/ Casual taxpayer/ SEZ Unit / SEZ Developer and must have a valid GSTIN

Taxpayer must have opted for the filing frequency as either monthly or quarterly on the GST Portal.

Authorized signatory and his/ her phone number must be registered on the GST Portal.

There must not be any data in saved or submitted stage in online version of Form GSTR-1, on the GST Portal.

7. Who is authorized to file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS, on behalf of the taxpayer?

All the authorized representatives, for a particular GSTIN, are allowed to file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS.

Note:

If more than one Authorized Signatories/ Representatives have the same mobile number registered on the GST Portal, such Authorized Signatories cannot file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS. In such scenario, Authorized Signatory first need to update their mobile number on the GST Portal, through non-core amendment process, by giving unique mobile number for every authorized signatory for that requested GSTIN.

Any Authorized Signatory/ Representative with unique mobile number registered on the GST Portal, can file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS.

8. I am an Authorized Signatory and my mobile number has been registered for more than one GSTIN. Can I file Nil Form GSTR-1, through SMS for all GSTINs?

Yes, you can file Nil Form GSTR-1, through SMS for all GSTINs, for whom you are an Authorized Signatory, from the same mobile number.

9. My Authorized Signatories have been reset by the Tax Official. Can I file Form GSTR-1 Nil return through SMS?

In case, your Authorized Signatories have been reset by the Tax Official, you need to first reactivate your User ID by navigating to GST Portal > Login > here link. Click here to know more about it.

Post reactivating your User ID, you can file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS.

Help SMS Format
10. How do I get help on Nil Form GSTR-1 filing through SMS?

You need to send SMS in below format to get help related to filing Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS to 14409:

SMS Format: HELP space<Return Type>

Example: HELP R1

 

 

Filing Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS
11. How can I file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS?

To file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS, follow the below mentioned steps. Let's take an example that you need to file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS for a GSTIN 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 for tax period April 2020 (monthly).

Note: The example also contains steps for filing Form GSTR-1 for quarter April to June 2020 for the same GSTIN for user information.

 

S.No.

	

Step-List

	

SMS Format

	

Example

1.	

Send SMS to 14409 number to file Nil Form GSTR-1.

	

NILspace<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period>

	

For Monthly Filing of Nil Form GSTR-1 for Tax Period April 2020:

NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 042020

For Quarterly Filing of Nil Form GSTR-1 for Tax Period Apr-Jun 2020:

NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 062020

2.	

After receiving the SMS, GST Portal will check for the validations.

Note:

If validations for filing Nil Form GSTR-1 are satisfied, you will receive a “Verification CODE” on the same mobile number from which you have sent the SMS to complete the filing.

If validations for Nil filing are not satisfied, you will receive appropriate response/ error message to the same mobile number from which you have sent the SMS.

Note: Verification Code is usable only once and will expire within 30 minutes. Please do not share it with anyone.

3.	

Send SMS again on the same number 14409 with Verification Code (For Example: Verification Code received here is 324961) to confirm filing of Nil Form GSTR-1.

Note: Taxpayers are required to compose a new text message to send it to 14409.

	

CNFspace<Return Type>space<Code>

	

CNF R1 324961

4	

After successful validation of “Verification Code", GST Portal will send back ARN to same mobile number and on registered e-mail ID of the taxpayer to intimate successful Nil filing of Form GSTR-1 .

 

The above is illustrated as texts images as given below:

 

12. I have saved my data/summary for a particular return period on the GST Portal. Can I file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS for that period?

You cannot file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS, for the tax period, for which you have saved data/summary on the GST Portal. If you have some saved data in your Form GSTR-1 on GST Portal, you need to either file your Form GSTR-1 through online mode on GST Portal or delete the saved data from the portal and then file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS.

13. Is there any difference in filing Nil Form GSTR-3B and Form GSTR-1 through SMS?

There is no difference in filing Nil Form GSTR-3B and Form GSTR-1 through SMS except the return type format.

Return type format for Form GSTR-3B is 3B and for Form GSTR-1 is R1.

 

Send SMS to 14409 for

	

Filing Form GSTR-1

	

Filing Form GSTR-3B

Getting Help Assistance

	

Help R1

	

Help 3B

Filing Nil Return

	

Monthly Filing - NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 042020

Quarterly Filing - NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 062020

 

	

NIL 3B 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 042020

 

Sending Verification Code

	

CNF R1 324961

	

CNF 3B 324961

 

For help on filing Nil Form GSTR-3B by SMS, click here.

Verification Code
14. What is the validity of Verification Code?

Verification Code is valid for 30 minutes.

15. Verification Code consists of how many digits?

Verification Code consists of 6 numeric digits only.

16. Can I use Verification Code multiple times?

No, Verification Code is usable only once.

17. Is SMS text case sensitive, in case of filing Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS?

No, SMS text is not case sensitive.

18. I have received a message that my mobile number has been blocked for 24 hours. Why?

In case, incorrect Verification Code is provided more than three times during a day, the GSTIN and Mobile number combination for that particular day, will be blocked for filing of Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS. You can try filing Nil Form GSTR-1, through SMS, after 24 hours.

 

However, you can login to the GST Portal to continue filing of Nil Form GSTR-1, through online mode. You can file Nil Form GSTR-1 for another GSTIN, if you the authorized signatory for those GSTINs.

19. I have sent correct Verification Code, but I have received SMS that the code is not valid. Why?

It is possible that your Verification Code has expired. You can send SMS again, in the desired format, to receive a new Verification Code. To send SMS again please wait for at least 5 minutes after generating of any new Verification Code.

Note: When you generate fresh Verification Code, previous Verification Code becomes invalid. In such case, you will have to provide new Verification Code to file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS.

Post Filing of Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS
20. What will happen after successful filing of Nil Form GSTR-1, through SMS?

After successful filing of Nil Form GSTR-1, through SMS:

ARN will get generated.

The status of Form GSTR-1 is changed to Filed on GST Portal.

An SMS and e-mail will be sent to the e-mail and mobile number of the primary authorized signatory.

In case, sender is an authorized signatory but not the primary authorized signatory, SMS will be sent to his/her mobile number also.

21. I have filed Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS. Do I need to login again to the GST Portal to file Nil Form GSTR-1?

Once you have filed Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS, you do not need to login to the GST Portal again to file Nil Form GSTR-1. After successful filing of Nil Form GSTR-1, through SMS, the status of Form GSTR-1 is changed to Filed on GST Portal.

22. I have filed Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS. Can I revise the filed return for the requested tax period?

No, you cannot revise filed Nil Form GSTR-1, for the requested tax period, after filing it through SMS.

23. From where can I track the status of my filed Form GSTR-1 return?

Navigate to Services > Returns > Track Return Status option to track the status of your filed Form GSTR-1 return on the GST Portal.

 

Click here to go to Troubleshooting Errors

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[13] Filing Form GSTR-1 - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - Troubleshooting Errors
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Troubleshooting_Errors.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Troubleshooting Errors (Form GSTR-1 through SMS)
Error Messages, Description and Solution
1. What are the various error messages, their description and solution?

S.No.

	

Error/Information message

	

Error/ Information Description

	

Solution

1	

Invalid input. For Help on GSTR-1, send: HELP R1 For Help on GSTR-3B, send: HELP 3B To 14409.

	

This message is received when the Keyword (NIL, CNF or HELP) is not as per standard format i.e. there is an issue with keyword NIL, CNF or HELP.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send the message in correct format for keyword NIL, CNF or HELP, as given below.

NILspace<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period>

CNFspace<Return Type>space<Code>

HELPspace<Return Type>

2

	

Request failed. Incorrect message format. Retry as: NIL <Return Type> <GSTIN> <Period> To file NIL 3B for Mar 2020: NIL 3B 07CQZCD1111I4Z7 032020. Send to 14409.

	

This message is received when NIL message contents are not as per standard format when return type can be determined, like:

a. GSTIN structure; or

b. Return period; or

c. Return type

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send NIL message again as per below format:

NILspace<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period>

 

And send it to 14409 with correct GSTIN Structure, Return Period or Return Type.

3

	

Request failed. Incorrect return type. Retry as: NIL <R1 or 3B> <GSTIN> <Period>. To file NIL 3B for Mar 2020: NIL 3B 07CQZCD1111I4Z7 032020. Send to 14409.

	

This message is received when NIL message contents are not as per standard format when return type cannot be determined, like:

a. GSTIN structure; or

b. Return period; or

c. Return type

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send NIL message again as per below format:

NILspace<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period>

 

And send it to 14409 with correct GSTIN Structure, Return Period or Return Type.

4

	

Request failed. Mobile number not registered for 11AAAAA1111A1ZA. Please retry with registered mobile number or update mobile number on GST Portal.

	

This message is received when Mobile number is not registered for that particular GSTIN.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to initiate Nil filing of Form GSTR-1 through SMS from the registered mobile number of the persons authorized to file returns for that particular GSTIN. Or, you can update the mobile number of the authorized signatory on the GST Portal, through non-core amendment process.

5

	

Request failed. Same mobile number is registered for multiple signatories of 11AAAAA1111A1ZA. Please retry post updating mobile number on GST portal.

	

This message is received when Mobile number is registered for more than one authorized signatory for that particular GSTIN.

	

Same mobile number can’t be used by multiple authorized signatories, for the requested GSTIN, for filing Nil Form GSTR-1. In such scenario, you first need to update the mobile number of the authorized signatory on the GST Portal, through non-core amendment process, by giving unique mobile number for every authorized signatory for that requested GSTIN.

 

Note: Same mobile number can be used for filing Nil Form GSTR-1 for other GSTINs.

6

	

Request failed. Invalid GSTIN. Please retry registered GSTIN.

	

This message is received when GSTIN format is correct, but GSTIN is not registered on the GST Portal.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send SMS with valid GSTIN, which is registered on the GST Portal.

7

	

Request failed. Incorrect format or Code Mismatch. Retry as: CNF R1 <CODE> Send to 14409. Mobile no. would be blocked for 24hrs in case of 3 continuous failure.

	

This message is received when taxpayer sends SMS in invalid format or with incorrect code.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send the SMS in prescribed format and with correct Validation Code, to file Nil Form GSTR-1. In case, mismatch for Verification Code happens for 3 times continuously, then that particular mobile number will be blocked for 24 hours.

8

	

Request failed. GSTR1 for requested tax period 042020 is already submitted/filed for 11AAAAA1111A1ZA. Please retry with different GSTIN or tax period.

	

This message is received when GSTIN and period for which Nil return is attempted to be filed through SMS, is either submitted or already filed for the tax period provided.

	

If the taxpayer has already submitted or filed Form GSTR-1 for the requested tax period, then Nil Form GSTR-1 can’t be filed again through SMS for that particular return period.

9

	

123456 is the CODE for Nil filing of R1 for 11AAAAA1111A1ZA for period 012020. Code validity is 30 min. Confirm return filing by sending: CNF R1 <CODE> to 14409

	

This message is received when you send a SMS in format as NILspace<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period> to initiate filing of Nil Form GSTR-1 and all the validations are successful.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send a SMS in format as CNFspace<Return Type>space<Code> to confirm filing of Nil Form GSTR-1.

10

	

You have exceeded maximum number of attempts for <GSTIN>. Please try again after 24hrs. Continue filing return for another GSTIN or on www.gst.gov.in

	

This message is received when incorrect code is provided continuously for 3 times. This combination of GSTIN and mobile number gets blocked for 24 hours.

	

You can try filing Nil Form GSTR-1, through SMS, after 24 hours. However, you can login to the GST Portal to continue filing of Nil Form GSTR-1, through online mode. You can continue filing return for another GSTIN from same mobile number.

11

	

Request failed. Invalid or expired Code. Retry as: NIL <R1 or 3B> <GSTIN> <Period>. To file NIL 3B for Mar 2020: NIL 3B 07CQZCD1111I4Z7 032020. Send to 14409.

	

This message is received in case you have sent SMS:

With Verification Code without creation of the request for filing Nil Form GSTR-1 or

With Verification Code post expiration of the code for filing Nil Form GSTR-1

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send a SMS in format as NILspace<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period> to initiate filing of Nil Form GSTR-1.

 

In case, mismatch for Verification Code happens for 3 times continuously, then that particular mobile number and GSTIN combination will be blocked for 24 hours.

12

	

Request failed. Incorrect form type. Please retry as: CNF R1 <CODE> Send to 14409. Mobile number would be blocked for 24hrs in case of 3 continuous failure.

	

This message is received, in case, return type sent with code is different from return type for which request was sent earlier.

For example, the code was created against a Nil filing request for Form GSTR-1 but confirmation message received was used for filing nil Form GSTR-3B. 

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send a SMS in format as CNFspace<Return Type>space<Code> to confirm filing of Nil Form GSTR-1 on the code received.

13

	

Request Failed. Incorrect Message Format. Retry with correct format. For R1/3B: CNF <R1 or 3B> <CODE> Send to 14409.

	

This message is received when the CNF request is not sent in the correct format.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send a SMS in format as CNFspace<Return Type>space<Code> to confirm filing of Nil Form GSTR-1 on the code received.

14

	

Request failed. You have exceeded maximum number of attempts for the day. Please try again after 24hrs. You may continue to file return on www.gst.gov.in.

	

This message is received when repeated SMS in incorrect format is sent from same mobile number for 50 times and then mobile number gets blocked for 24 hours.

	

You can try filing Nil Form GSTR-1, through SMS, after 24 hours. However, you can login to the GST Portal to continue filing of Nil Form GSTR-1, through online mode.

 

You can also try filing Nil Form GSTR-1, through SMS, using another authorized signatory’s registered mobile number.

15

	

Request failed. Quarterly taxpayers to file return for third month of quarter. Retry as: To file NIL R1 for Q1 2020: NIL R1 07CQZCD1111I4Z7 032020 Send to 14409.

	

This message is received when taxpayer has opted to file Form GSTR-1 on quarterly frequency, but is trying to file return for first two months of the quarter.

 

	

You need to file Form GSTR-1 on quarterly frequency.

For Quarterly Filing of Nil Form GSTR-1 for Tax Period Apr-Jun 2020:

NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 062020, i.e. last month of the quarter is to be sent on mmyyyy format.

16

	

Taxpayer 11AAAAA1111A1ZA has not selected return filing frequency for the financial year. Select filing frequency by logging into www.gst.gov.in and try again.

	

This message is received when taxpayer has not selected the filing frequency for the relevant financial year on the GST Portal, pertaining to the tax period for which the request has been sent for return filing.

	

Login to the GST Portal and select the filing frequency for the relevant financial year belonging to the tax period for which the request has been sent for filing.

17

	

Your last request for 11AAAAA1111A1ZA, GSTR1, tax period 042020 is under process; generation of code may take up to 5 min.

	

This message is received when another request for Verification Code is sent by you when the previous request (GSTIN+Tax period) for Nil filing is still in process for the generation of code and code is not yet generated.

	

There may be a chance that the code is yet to be generated. Once you receive this message, you need to wait for 5 minutes to send another request for Verification Code. Even after waiting for 5 minutes, if you do not receive code, then you can request for a new code.

18

	

To file NIL return of GSTIN for Mar 2020: NIL R1 07CQZCD1111I4Z7 032020. To confirm

Nil filing: CNF R1 CODE. Send to 14409. More details on www.gst.gov.in

	

This message is received when you send message for getting help related to filing Nil Form GSTR-1.

	

Once you receive this message, you can send a SMS in format NILspace<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period> to initiate filing of Nil Form GSTR-1.

19

	

Request failed. An existing request is under process for 11AAAAA1111A1ZA, GSTR1 and tax period 032020. Please try again later.

	

This message is received, in case, two authorized signatories send parallel requests to file Nil Form GSTR-1 for same GSTIN and return period and the request sent earlier is still being processed.

	

Once 2nd authorized signatory receives this message, he/she must wait for some time until the previous request sent by 1st authorized signatory is processed to file Nil Form GSTR-1.

 

You can also check with other authorized signatories, in case, they have sent the request for filing Nil Form GSTR-1 from their mobile number for that GSTIN.

20

	

Your, 11AAAAA1111A1ZA, GSTR1 for tax period 042020 is filed successfully and ARN is AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA. Please use this ARN to track the status of your return.

	

This message is received on successful verification of code and filing of Nil Form GSTR-1.

	

Once you receive this message, it means that you have successfully filed Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS. You can also login to the GST Portal to check the status of your filed return.

21

	

Nil filing request for 11AAAAA1111A1ZA for period 042020 could not be processed. Please try again or continue to file return on www.gst.gov.in.

 

	

This message is received when Verification Code validation fails due to technical issues on GST Portal.

	

Once you receive this message, wait for some time and try filing Nil Form GSTR-1 again, if you do not receive any ARN for Nil Filing of Form GSTR-1.

22

	

Incorrect message format. For Help on GSTR-1, send : HELP R1. For Help on GSTR-3B, send: HELP 3B. Send To 14409.

	

This message is received, in case HELP keyword is sent in incorrect format to get Help related to filing Form GSTR-1.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send a SMS in format as

HELPspace<Return Type> to get Help related to filing Nil Form GSTR-1.

23

	

Request failed. 11AAAAA1111A1ZA is not a regular taxpayer during the requested tax period. Please retry with another GSTIN or tax period.

	

This message is received if GSTIN mentioned in SMS is not registered as regular taxpayer for that particular return period, on GST Portal.

	

To file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS, GSTIN has to be registered as a regular taxpayer, for that particular return period. You can check on the GST Portal, if the GSTIN, during the requested tax period is registered as regular (normal/casual/SEZ) taxpayer.

 

If taxpayer is registered as regular (normal/casual/SEZ) taxpayer, you can file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS for the requested tax period.

 

If not, you can try filing Form GSTR-1 for another tax period where taxpayer is registered as regular (normal/casual/SEZ) taxpayer.

24

	

Request failed. 11AAAAA1111A1ZA was cancelled prior to requested tax period 042020. Please retry with another GSTIN or tax period.

	

This message is received, if the GSTIN registration was already cancelled, from a date prior to return period for which the Nil Form GSTR-1 is being filed.

	

Nil Form GSTR-1 cannot be filed for a particular tax period, if GSTIN registration was cancelled from a date prior to the requested tax period. Try filing Nil Form GSTR-1, for some other tax period, when GSTIN registration was active.

25

	

Request failed. Requested tax period 042020 is prior to date of registration for 11AAAAA1111A1ZA. Please retry with another GSTIN or tax period.

	

This message is received, if the period for which Nil Form GSTR-1 is being filed, is before the date of registration for the GSTIN.

	

Nil Form GSTR-1 cannot be filed for the period, if the requested tax period is prior to date of registration. Try filing Nil Form GSTR-1, for some other tax period, on or after the date by when registration was active.

26

	

Request failed. Please activate your User ID on GST portal. Retry as below: To file NIL R1 of GSTIN for Mar 2020: NIL R1 07CQZCD1111I4Z7 032020 Send to 14409

	

This message is received in case the taxpayer has not activated/reactivated their USER ID on the GST Portal.

	

If taxpayer has changed the authorized signatory, then he/she has to reactivate the USER ID on GST Portal, to file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS.

Further, for a new taxpayer also, USER ID has to be activated on the GST Portal, before attempting to file Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS.

27

	

Request failed. 11AAAAA1111A1ZA not eligible to file nil return for tax period 0402020 via SMS. Please continue return filing on the www.gst.gov.in

	

This message is received in case the GSTIN is not eligible for filing Nil Form GSTR-1.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to check the requirements for filing Nil Form GSTR-1. Post meeting all the requirements, you can initiate filing Nil Form GSTR-1 through SMS, again.

28

	

Request failed. Saved data exist for tax period 042020 for 11AAAAA1111A1ZA. Please continue return filing on www.gst.gov.in.

 

	

This message is received in case:

GSTIN provided is not eligible for filing Nil Form GSTR-1, due to saved data in your Form GSTR-1, on GST Portal during NIL request or

GSTIN provided is not eligible for filing Nil Form GSTR-1 due to saved data in your Form GSTR-1, on GST Portal during CNF request

	

Once you receive this message, it means that you have some saved data in your Form GSTR-1, on GST Portal. Therefore, you need to continue filing of your Form GSTR-1 through online mode on GST Portal after log in or delete the saved data from GST Portal and then initiate Nil Form GSTR-1 filing through SMS.

29

	

Request failed. GSTR1 can be filed only on or after 1st of month following the tax period 042020. Please try with another GSTIN or tax period.

	

This message is received in case you try to file Nil Form GSTR-1 before 1st of the month following  the month/quarter for which the return is being filed.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to Nil Form GSTR-1 on or after 1st of the month following the month/quarter for which the return is being filed.

For example, for the month of April 2020, nil return can be filed only on or after 1st May 2020.

30

	

Please confirm the Nil filing using code received. In case of non-receipt of code please try again after 5 min.

	

This message is received when the request for Verification Code is sent again by you within 5 minutes of sending the SMS for generation of code and code is already sent by the GST portal.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to wait for 5 minutes before sending a request for generation of code, as the GST portal has already generated the code and has sent it to your mobile number.

 

Click here to go to Overview of Filing

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[14] Filing Form GSTR-1 - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual__Filing_Nil_Form_GSTR-1_Online_by_Normal_Taxpayer.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual> Filing Nil Form GSTR-1 Online by Normal Taxpayer
How can I file a Nil Form GSTR-1?

To file a Nil Form GSTR-1, perform the following steps:
1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard option.

 

 

2. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year, Quarter and Period (Month) for which you want to file the return from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

3. Click the PREPARE ONLINE button in the GSTR1 tile.

 

 

4. The GSTR-1 – Details of outward supplies of goods or services page is displayed. Select File Nil GSTR-1 checkbox.
Note: You can click the HELP button to view help related to this page.

 

4.1  In case the taxpayers has already saved/auto-populated records in GSTR-1, on selecting the File Nil GSTR-1 checkbox, an error message will be displayed stating that there are some saved records in the form for this tax period.

 

 

4.2 Notice that the tile 7- B2C (Others) has some saved data. Delete the saved data to proceed to do NIL filing.
4.2.a. Click the RESET button followed by highlighted symbol to reset the saved data in Form GSTR-1.
 

 

OR
4.2.b. Click the tile(s) having saved records.

 

 

4.2.b1 Click the highlighted delete icon to delete the saved data.

 

 

4.2.b2 Click the PROCEED button to confirm.

 

 

4.3 Once the already saved/auto-populated records are deleted, select File Nil GSTR-1 checkbox.You need to delete the saved/auto-populated records to generate a summary. Once the summary is generated, the deleted record will be then removed from the table. Now, select File GSTR-1 checkbox.

 

 

5. The Nil File GSTR-1 page will be displayed. Click the FILE STATEMENT button to proceed.
 

 

Note: 
•    It is mandatory to file form GSTR-3B and form GSTR-1 of the immediate previous period to file the NIL Form GSTR-1. Example, if you are filing the NIL Form GSTR-1 of Jul-Sep(Q), then GSTR-3B for Apr-Jun 2022 and GSTR-1 for Apr-Jun(Q) 2022 must be filed. For monthly filer, if you are filing the NIL Form GSTR-1 of September-22, then GSTR-3B for August 2022 and GSTR-1 for August 2022 must be filed.

 

 

6. The Returns Filing for GSTR1 page is displayed. Select the Declaration checkbox. In the Authorised Signatory drop-down list, select the authorized signatory. Click the FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button to file GSTR-1.
Note: On filing of Form GSTR-1, notification through e-mail and SMS is sent to the Authorised Signatory.

 

 

7.1 FILE WITH DSC:
a. Click the PROCEED button.
b. Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

7.2 FILE WITH EVC:
a.  Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VERIFY button.
 

 
8. A success message with ARN number is displayed on the screen.

 

 

9. Once the Nil GSTR-1 is successfully filed, the status will change as ‘Filed’.

9.1 Click the DOWNLOAD FILED (PDF) button to download filed GSTR-1 form in PDF format.
 

 

10. Form GSTR-1 Nil file is downloaded in PDF format.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[15] Filing Form GSTR-1 - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs__Filing_Nil_Form_GSTR-1_Online_by_Normal_Taxpayer.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs> Filing Nil Form GSTR-1 Online by Normal Taxpayer
1. When can Form GSTR-1 be filed as Nil?

Form GSTR-1 can be filed as a nil return if there are:
•    No outward supplies (including supplies on which tax is to be charged on reverse charge basis, zero rated supplies and deemed exports) during the month or quarter, for which the return is being filed for.
•    No Amendments to be made to any of the supplies declared in an earlier form.
•    No Credit or Debit Notes to be declared / amended.
•    No details of advances received for services is to be declared or adjusted.

•    Previous month’s return GSTR-1 and GSTR3B is to be filed.

2. Which class of taxpayers can file Nil Form GSTR-1?

Nil Form GSTR-1 can be filed by any regular taxpayer, casual or SEZ unit/developer who is eligible to file form GSTR-1, provided the necessary pre-conditions are satisfied.

3. From when can I file Nil Form GSTR-1 for a tax period?

A taxpayer can file Nil Form GSTR-1, from 1st of the subsequent month of the tax period onwards. For example, Form GSTR-1 for the calendar month of April, can be filed from 1st May onwards. Form GSTR-1 for the quarter of April to June can be filed from 1st July onwards.

4. I have not filed the Form GSTR-3B of previous month. Can I do Nil filing for the current month?

For a monthly filer, it is mandatory to file form GSTR-3B and form GSTR-1 of the immediate previous month to file the Nil Form GSTR-1 of the current month. Example, if you are filing the Nil Form GSTR-1 of September, then GSTR-3B for August 2022 and GSTR-1 for August 2022 must be filed.

5. How can I file Nil Form GSTR-1?

On page File Nil Form GSTR-1, select the check box and then click the FILE STATEMENT button to file the Nil Form GSTR-1.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[16] Filing Form GSTR-1 - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_Importing_e-Way_Bill_Data_in_Form_GSTR-1.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Importing Invoice-details Declared in e-Way Bill System into Form GSTR-1
How can I import invoice-details, declared in e-Way Bill System, into Form GSTR-1?

To import invoice-details, declared in e-Way Bill System, into Form GSTR-1; perform following steps:

 

Login at GST Portal, navigate to GSTR-1 page of the selected tax period and generate GSTR-1 Summary

Import invoices, declared in e-Way Bill System, into the following tiles of the generated GSTR-1 Summary page:  

4A, 4B, 6B, 6C - B2B, SEZ, DE Invoices (To import invoice-details for taxable outward supply transactions between registered taxable entities/persons from e-Way Bill System)  

5A - B2C (Large) Invoices (To import invoice-details for taxable outward inter-State supply transactions between a Registered Supplier and an Unregistered Buyer, where the invoice value is more than Rs 2.5 lakh, from e-Way Bill System)

6A - Exports Invoices (To import invoice-details for supplies exported, from e-Way Bill System)

7 - B2C (Others) (To import invoice-details for taxable outwards supplies to a customer where invoice value is less than Rs. 2.5 lakh and all intra state supplies to unregistered customers, from e-Way Bill System)

12 - HSN-wise-summary of Outward Supplies (To download the summarized HSN-wise invoice-details of all outward supplies)  

	

 

 

Click each hyperlink to know more.

 

 

I. 4A, 4B, 4C, 6B, 6C - B2B, SEZ, DE Invoices

To import B2B EWB invoices in the Form GSTR-1, perform following steps:

 

1. Click the 4A, 4B, 4C, 6B, 6C - B2B, SEZ, DE Invoices" tile.

 

 

2.Click the IMPORT EWB DATA button.

 

Note: EWB details will be available in GST portal based on the e-Way bills pertaining to outward supply generated during the relevant tax period.    

   

Note: Click on “IMPORT EWB DATA” tile to import details of e way bills generated for the selected period, if any.  

 

 

3. To add record in the B2B table, click the ADD RECORD button. Enter the required details. Click the SAVE button. A Success message will be displayed.

 

 

4. Based on the number of invoices of current tax period present in the EWB System, a page will be displayed. Click the following hyperlinks to know what happens in each case:

4a. If the number of invoices are less than or equal to 50

4b. If the number of invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500

4c. If the number of invoices are more than 500

 

4a. If the number of B2B EWB invoices are less than or equal to 50

If the number of invoices are less than or equal to 50, following page gets displayed. Perform the steps as mentioned below or click the BACK button to go to the previous page.

 

 

4a(i). If required, click the DOWNLOAD button to download the invoices in CSV format or go to step 2a(ii) to import the data.

 

 

4a(ii). Select all the invoices by selecting the All selection box or select the selection boxes against the invoices to be imported. As you make your selection, the "IMPORT" button gets enabled. Click the IMPORT button.

 

 

 

4a(iii). An Information popup is displayed. Click the OK button.

 

 

4a(iv). A Success popup is displayed. Click the CLOSE button.

 

 

4a(v). After a few minutes, click the refresh button on the top and processing Status gets displayed in the "Import History" table.

 

 

Note: In case the invoices are processed with error, error report gets generated in JSON format, which can be viewed in the Offline tool to correct the same. Please click here. to view the step-by-step instructions on how to do this in the "Open Downloaded Error File – GSTR1" section of the Offline Tool Manual.

 

4a(vi). Click the Edit button in the "Actions" column or the hyperlink in the "Invoice No." column to make changes to the invoice. To know how to do this, click here.

 

 

4a(vii). The B2B Invoices-Summary page is displayed. Click the Edit button in the "Actions" column or the hyperlink in the "Invoice No." column to make changes to the invoice. To know how to do this, click here.

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail. which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

Go back to the Main Menu

4b. If the number of B2B EWB invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500

If the number of invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500, following page gets displayed. Perform the steps as mentioned below or click the BACK button to go to the previous page.

 

 

4b(i). Click the DOWNLOAD button. A "b2b.csv" file gets downloaded as shown below.

 

 

4b(ii). To view the downloaded B2B EWB invoices, click on the downloaded b2b.csv sheet to open it. To upload these B2B EWB invoices using the offline utility, please follow the steps mentioned here.

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail. which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

4c. If the number of B2B EWB invoices are more than 500

If the number of invoices are more than 500, following page gets displayed. Perform the steps as mentioned below or click the BACK button to go to the previous page.

 

 

4c(i). Click the GENERATE FILE TO DOWNLOAD button.

 

4c(ii). A message asking you to wait for 20 minutes gets displayed.

 

 

4c(iii). After 20 minutes, another message is displayed and a download link is also provided below the GENERATE FILE TO DOWNLOAD button. Click the link to download a zipped folder containing the B2B EWB invoices in excel format.

 

 

4c(iv). Right-click on the zipped folder and click Extract All.

 

 

4c(v) Unzipped Excel File gets displayed. Click it to open it.

 

 

4c(vi). The downloaded B2B EWB invoices get displayed. To upload these invoices using the offline utility, follow the steps mentioned here.

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

II. 5A - B2C (Large) Invoices

To import B2CL EWB invoices in Form GSTR-1, perform the following steps:

 

1. Click the 5A - B2C (Large) Invoices tile.

 

 

2. Click the IMPORT EWB DATA button.

 

 

 

Note: EWB details will be available in GST portal based on the e-Way bills pertaining to outward supply generated during the relevant tax period.    

 

3. To add record in the B2C table click the ADD Record button. Enter the required details and click SAVE. A Success message will be generated.

 

 

4. Based on the number of invoices of current tax period present in the EWB System, a page will be displayed. Click the following hyperlinks to know what happens in each case:

 

 

4a. If the number of invoices are less than or equal to 50

4b. If the number of invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500

4c. If the number of invoices are more than 500

 

4a. If the number of invoices are less than or equal to 50

If the number of invoices are less than or equal to 50, following page gets displayed. Perform the same steps you would have performed to import B2B invoices, as mentioned here.  

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail. which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

4b. If the number of B2CL EWB invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500

If the number of invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500, following page gets displayed. Perform the steps as mentioned below.

 

 

4b(i). Click the DOWNLOAD button. A "b2cl.csv" file gets downloaded as shown below.

 

 

4b(ii). To view the downloaded B2Cl EWB invoices, click on the downloaded b2cl.csv sheet to open it. To upload these B2CL EWB invoices using the offline utility, please follow the steps mentioned here.

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail. which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

 4c. Ifthe number of B2CL EWB invoices are more than 500

If the number of B2CL EWB invoices are more than 500, following page gets displayed. Perform the same steps you would have performed to import B2B invoices, as mentioned here.  

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

III. 6A - Exports Invoices

To import export invoices in Form GSTR-1, perform the following steps:

 

1. Click the 6A - Exports Invoices tile.

 

 

2. Click the IMPORT EWB DATA button.

Note: EWB details will be available in GST portal based on the e-Way bills pertaining to outward supply generated during the relevant tax period.    

 

 

 

3. To add record in the Export table click the ADD Record button. Enter the required details and click SAVE. A Success message will be generated.

 

4. Based on the number of EXP invoices of current tax period present in the EWB System, a page will be displayed. Click the following hyperlinks to know what happens in each case:

 

 

4a. If the number of invoices are less than or equal to 50

4b. If the number of invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500

4c. If the number of invoices are more than 500

4a. If the number of invoices are less than or equal to 50

If the number of EXP invoices are less than or equal to 50, following page gets displayed. Perform the same steps you would have performed to import B2B invoices, as mentioned here.  

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail. which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

4b. If the number of EXP invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500

If the number of EXP invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500, following page gets displayed. Perform the steps as mentioned below.

 

 

4b(i). Click the DOWNLOAD button. A "exp.csv" file gets downloaded as shown below.

 

 

4b(ii). To view the downloaded invoices, click on the downloaded exp.csv sheet to open it. To upload these invoices using the offline utility, please follow the steps mentioned here.

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail. which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

4c. If the number of EXP invoices are more than 500

If the number of EXP invoices are more than 500, following page gets displayed. Perform the same steps you would have performed to import B2B invoices, as mentioned here.  

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

 

IV. 7 - B2C Others

To import 7 - B2C Others invoices in Form GSTR-1, perform the following steps:

 

1. Click the 7 - B2C (Others) tile.

 

 

 

2. Click the IMPORT EWB DATA button.

Note: EWB details will be available in GST portal based on the e-Way bills pertaining to outward supply generated during the relevant tax period.    

 

 

3. To add record in the B2C table click the ADD Record button. Enter the required details and click SAVE. A Success message will be generated.

 

 

4. Based on the number of B2CS invoices of current tax period present in the EWB System, a page will be displayed. Click the following hyperlinks to know what happens in each case:

4a. If the number of invoices are less than or equal to 50

4b. If the number of invoices are more than 500

4a. If the number of invoices are less than or equal to 50

If the number of B2CS invoices are less than or equal to 50, following page gets displayed. Perform the same steps you would have performed to import B2B invoices, as mentioned here.  

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail. which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

4b. If the number of EXP invoices are more than 500

If the number of B2CS invoices are more than 500, perform the same steps you would have performed to import B2B invoices, as mentioned here.  

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

 

V. 12 - HSN-wise-summary of Outward Supplies

To import HSN-wise EWB invoices in the Form GSTR-1, perform the following steps:

1. Click the 12 - HSN-wise-summary of outward supplies tile.

 

 

 

2. Click the IMPORT EWB DATA button.

Note: EWB details will be available in GST portal based on the e-Way bills pertaining to outward supply generated during the relevant tax period.   

 

 

 

3. Based on the number of invoices of current tax period present in the EWB System, a page will be displayed. Click the following hyperlinks to know what happens in each case:

 

 

3a. If the number of invoices are less than or equal to 50

3b. If the number of invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500

3c. If the number of invoices are more than 500

 

3a. If the number of HSN-wise EWB invoices are less than or equal to 50

If the number of HSN-wise EWB invoices are less than or equal to 50, following page gets displayed. Perform the steps as mentioned below or click the BACK button to go to the previous page.

 

 

3a(i). Click the DOWNLOAD button. An "hsn.csv" file gets downloaded as shown below.

 

 

3a(ii). To view the downloaded HSN-wise EWB invoices, click on the downloaded hsn.csv sheet to open it. To upload these invoices using the offline utility, please follow the steps mentioned here.

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail. which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

 

3b. If the number of HSN-wise EWB invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500

If the number of HSN-wise EWB invoices are more than 50 but less than or equal to 500, following page gets displayed. Perform the steps as mentioned below.

 

 

3b(i). Click the DOWNLOAD button. An "hsn.csv" file gets downloaded as shown below.

 

 

3b(ii). To view the downloaded HSN-wise EWB invoices, click on the downloaded hsn.csv sheet to open it. To upload these invoices using the offline utility, please follow the steps mentioned here.

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail. which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

 

3c. If the number of HSN-wise EWB invoices are more than 500 

If the number of HSN-wise EWB invoices are more than 500, following page gets displayed. Perform the same steps you would have performed to import B2B invoices, as mentioned here.  

 

 

Note: Make sure you duly enter any supply detail which was not covered in the e-Way Bill data, against the relevant tab separately in Form GSTR-1 before filing.

 

Go back to the Main Menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[17] Filing Form GSTR-1 - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_Importing_e-Way_Bill_Data_in_Form_GSTR-1.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Importing Invoice-details Declared in e-Way Bill System into Form GSTR-1
1. What type of invoice-details can be imported into Form GSTR-1 using the "Import EWB Data" button?

Using the "Import EWB Data" button in the Form GSTR-1 page, you can import, following details of e-Way Bill related to outward supplies:

B2B (Business-to-Business) invoices related to taxable outward supply transactions between registered taxable entities/persons

B2CL (Business-to-Consumer) invoices related to taxable outward inter-State supply transactions between a Registered Supplier (seller) and an Unregistered Recipient (buyer), where the invoice value is more than Rs 2.5 lakh

Invoice-wise HSN records (Note: These records will be available for viewing and download. You can click the "IMPORT EWB DATA" button to download them and then use the offline utility tool for preparing Form GSTR1

2. On the GST Portal, where is the "Import EWB Data" button added on the Form GSTR-1 page?

On the GST Portal, the "Import EWB Data" button has been added in the following tiles of the Form GSTR-1 page. By clicking on this button, you can easily import their respective details of outward supply invoices, as indicated in the-Way Bill, into Form GSTR-1:

4A, 4B, 4C, 6B, 6C - B2B Invoices

5A, 5B - B2C (Large) Invoices

6A - Exports Invoices

7 - B2C Others

12 - HSN-wise-summary of Outward Supplies

3. What is the benefit of the "Import EWB Data" button?

At the time of generating the e-Way Bill for outward supply, you would have already entered some of the details of outward supplies such as invoice number, date, Value, Tax, HSN code, and Consignee GSTIN, etc. You can now easily import these details from EWB System into form GSTR 1 at the time of its preparation, by clicking the "Import EWB Data" button, for the said tax period, on the GST Portal.

 

The import of such details from e-Way Bill System into Form GSTR-1 will enable you to:

populate such details in Form GSTR-1, without error.

edit such details, wherever required.

save time in preparation of Form GSTR-1 by avoiding duplication of effort in re-entering such details in Form GSTR-1.

4. In the current tax period, how many times can I import invoice-details into Form GSTR-1 using the "Import EWB Data" button?

For the current tax period, you can import invoice-details, declared in e-Way Bill System, into Form GSTR-1 multiple times using the "Import EWB Data" button. In case the said invoice-details already exist in Form GSTR-1 on the GST Portal, a popup will be displayed asking you whether you want to replace the existing document or not.

5. In the previous tax period, I already had uploaded and submitted the e-Way Bill invoice-details in Form GSTR-1 and filed the return successfully on the GST Portal. In this current tax period, can I import the same details that I had uploaded in the previous tax period before filing Form GSTR-1?

No. If an e-Way Bill invoice-details is already uploaded and submitted in a previous tax period, then the GST Portal will not allow you to import the same invoice-details again in the current tax period. In case you try do so, an error report will get generated in JSON format, which can be viewed in the Offline utility tool.  

6. Is there a limit on importing number of invoice-details, declared in e-Way Bill System, into Form GSTR1?

No, there is no limit on importing number of invoice-details, declared in e-Way Bill System, into Form GSTR-1. However, note the following points with regards to importing such invoice-details:

For invoice count less than or equal to 50: B2B, B2CL, EXP, B2CS invoices and invoice-wise HSN records will be listed in their respective tiles of Form GSTR-1 Summary page. You can import B2B, B2CL, EXP and B2CS invoice-details online. The same can be downloaded in csv format as well. Invoice-wise HSN records will be available for viewing and download.

For invoice count more than 50 but less than or equal to 500: B2B, B2CL, EXP and invoice-wise HSN records will be available for an immediate download in CSV format, from their respective tiles in GSTR1 summary page. You can easily download them and then upload it in the offline utility for viewing and making changes, if required.

For invoice count more than 500: B2B, B2CL, EXP, B2CS and invoice-wise HSN records will be available for download in a zipped excel format, from their respective tiles in Form GSTR1 summary page. However, this download will not happen immediately and will take some time. After the file is downloaded, you can upload it in the offline utility for viewing and making changes, if required.

7. Can I import/download the e-Way Bill data after filing of my Form GSTR-1 for the same period?

Even after you have filed Form GSTR-1 for the current period, you can go back to the GSTR-1 Summary page and download the e-Way Bill data. However, you can’t import and then upload the same in this case when Form GSTR-1 has already been filed.

8. I’m filing my Form GSTR-1 on quarterly basis. Can I import all e-Way Bill invoice-data for the full quarter?

Yes. In case you are a quarterly taxpayer, then all invoice-details dated during the particular quarter shall be available for download.

9. Can I edit the e-Way Bill documents after importing them in Form GSTR-1?

Yes, using this "Edit"   button present in each tile, you can easily edit the e-Way Bill documents after successful import.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[18] Filing Form GSTR-1 - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_e_Invoice_QR_Code_Verifier.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > e-Invoice Verifier QR Code Mobile App
How can I register on the e-Invoice Verifier QR code Mobile app? 

To register yourself on the GST Mobile app, perform the following steps:

 

1.    Simply download the App form Google Play Store. Permit your device to allow e-Invoice_Verifier to take pictures and record video.

 

 

2. Tap on the Verify QR Code and Scan the QR code on the e-Invoice from a close distance.

 

 

Note: Click X mark to go back.

 

3.    The details of e-Invoice will be displayed as under:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[19] Filing Form GSTR-1 - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_e_Invoice_QR_Code_Verifier.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > e-Invoice Verifier QR Code Mobile App
1. What is the purpose of e-Invoice QR Code Verifier Mobile app? 

The E-Invoice QR Code Verification app aims to simplify and streamline the verification process of e-invoice QR codes. It allows users to authenticate the embedded value within QR codes for enhanced compliance and convenience.

 

The app offers the following key features:
1. QR Code Verification: The app allows users to scan the QR code on an e-invoice and authenticate the embedded value within the code. This ensures the accuracy and authenticity of the e-invoice.
2. User-Friendly Interface: The app provides a user-friendly interface with intuitive navigation, making it easy for users to navigate through the app's features and functionalities.
3. Comprehensive Coverage: The app supports verification of e-invoices reported across all six IRPs, ensuring comprehensive coverage and convenience.
4. Non-Login Based: The app operates on a non-login basis, meaning users are not required to create an account or provide login credentials to access its functionalities. This simplifies the user experience and makes it more convenient for users.

2. How can I download the e-Invoice QR Code Verifier Mobile app? 

This mobile app is available for android version currently. The iOS versions will be live shortly. You can download the mobile app from Play store on Android phones. 

 

Link to download App for Android:

https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.chrgraj.eInvoice_verifier 

3. How can I register myself on the e-Invoice QR Code Verifier Mobile app? 

The app operates on a non-login basis, meaning users are not required to create an account or provide login credentials to access its functionalities. This simplifies the user experience and makes it more convenient for users.

4. How to scan the QR code using the e-Invoice QR Code Verifier Mobile app?

Follow these steps to use the app effectively:

 

1. Download and Install: Search for "E-Invoice QR Code Verification" on the Play Store (for Android) or the App Store (for iOS coming shortly). Download and install the app on your device.

2. Launch the App: Open the app by tapping on its icon on your device's home screen.
3. QR Code Verification: To verify an e-invoice QR code, select the "QR Code Verification" option on the home screen. Align the QR code within the frame on the screen and let the app scan it. The app will authenticate the embedded value and display the verification result.

 

Note: Please give your consent for the device to “Allow e-Invoice_Verifier to take pictures and record video”.

5. Which details will I get after scanning the QR code?

On successful scanning of QR code, the below details will be displayed:
•    Supplier GSTIN 
•    Recipient GSTIN
•    Document Number
•    Document Type
•    Document Date
•    Total Invoice Value
•    No. of Line Items
•    Main HSN
•    IRN
•    IRN Generation Date
•    Issued By 

6.  What types of e-invoices can be verified using the app? 

The app can verify e-invoices that have embedded QR codes signed by IRPs conforming to the e-invoicing standards as per GST Act and rules.

7. What should I do if I suspect an e-invoice to be fraudulent even after successful QR code verification? 

If you have reasons to believe that an e-invoice may be fraudulent or suspicious, it is recommended to check the authenticity of same by using the search IRN functionality hosted at http://einvoice.gst.gov.in 

8. What happens if the QR code on an e-invoice cannot be scanned or is unreadable? 

If the QR code on an e-invoice cannot be scanned or is unreadable, the app will display an error message indicating the issue. In such cases, it is recommended to ensure that the QR code is clear and properly aligned within the scanning frame. If the problem persists, contact the e-invoice issuer or relevant authorities for assistance.

9. What should I do if I encounter an e-invoice that fails the QR code verification? 

If the QR code verification of an e-invoice fails, it indicates that the embedded value within the QR code does not match the expected data or there may be an issue with the e-invoice itself. In such cases, it is advisable to contact the e-invoice issuer or relevant tax authorities to report the issue and seek further clarification or resolution.

10. Can the app be used to verify the authenticity of physical invoices or receipts? 

No, the E-Invoice QR Code Verification app is specifically designed to verify the authenticity of e-invoices that contain signed QR codes. It does not support the verification of physical invoices or receipts that do not have embedded QR codes.

11. Is there a limit to the number of e-invoices I can verify using the app? 

There is no inherent limit to the number of e-invoices you can verify using the app. You can use the app to verify as many e-invoices as needed, provided they have QR codes that can be scanned by the app.

12. Can the E-Invoice QR Code Verification app be used offline? 

Yes, the app can be used offline for QR code verification. It does not require an active internet connection to perform the verification process. However, if you want to access the user guide, update the app, or receive support, an internet connection is required. 

13. Is the app compatible with all smartphones and tablets? 

The app is designed to be compatible with a wide range of smartphones and tablets running on Android and iOS platforms. However, it is recommended to check the system requirements and compatibility information provided on the respective app stores to ensure that your device meets the necessary specifications.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[20] Filing Form GSTR-1A - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_Creation_of_Outward_Supplies_Return_in_GSTR-1A.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Form GSTR-1A > Creation and Submission of Statement of Outward Supplies
How can I create and file details for the outward supplies in Form GSTR-1A (Monthly/Quarterly)?

To add, amend and file details of outward supplies in Form GSTR-1A, perform following steps:

 

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-1A

B. Steps to File Form GSTR-1A

C. Add Amend Records in Form GSTR-1A

D. Deleting any saved documents in Form GSTR-1A

E. Generate Form GSTR-1A Summary

F. Proceed to File/Summary

G. Preview Form GSTR-1A summary and Consolidated summary of GSTR-1& GSTR-1A 

H. File Form GSTR-1A with DSC/ EVC

 

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-1A

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard option.

 

 

2. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year, Quarter and Period (Month) for which you want to file the return from the respective drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

3. Click the PREPARE ONLINE tab on the Amendment of outward supplies of goods or services for current tax period  GSTR-1A tile.

Note: GSTR-1A tile will be visible only after filing of GSTR-1 of the same tax period. If GSTR-1 is filed before the due date in this case GSTR-1A will be visible only after the due date of GSTR-1.

 

 

4. The GSTR-1A – Amendment of outward supplies of goods or services for current tax period  page is displayed.

 

Note: You can click the HELP button to view help related to this page.

Click here to go back to main menu

B. Steps to File Form GSTR-1A 

Taxpayer can follow the below steps to file GSTR-1A:
i.   Add or amend the records in GSTR-1A related to current tax period.
ii.  Click ‘GENERATE SUMMARY’ button to generate the summary, 
iii. Click ‘PROCEED TO FILE/SUMMARY’ button to view the final summary before filing 
iv.  Click ‘FILE STATEMENT’ button to file GSTR-1A 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

C. Add/Amend Records in Form GSTR-1A

 There are number of tiles representing Tables to enter relevant details. Click on the tile names to know and enter related details:

 

1.    Table 4A, 4B, 6B, 6C - B2B,SEZ,DE Invoices: To add an invoice for taxable outwards supplies to a registered person for current tax period only.
2.    Table 5 - B2C (Large) Invoices: To add an invoice for taxable outwards supplies to a consumer, where place of supply is other than the State where supplier is located (Inter-state supplies) and invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh for current tax period only.

 

Note:  As per amended rules from August 2024 tax return period onwards, this table will be used to add an invoice for taxable outwards supplies to a consumer, where place of supply is other than the State where supplier is located (Inter-state supplies) and invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh for current tax period only and up to July 2024 tax return period, the invoice value should be more than Rs. 2.5 lakhs.
3.    Table 6A - Exports Invoices: To add an invoice for supplies exported for current tax period only.
4.    Table 7- B2C Others: To add consolidated details of taxable outwards supplies to a customer where invoice value for inter-state supplies upto Rs. 1 lakh and all intra state supplies to unregistered customers for current tax period only.

 

Note: As per amended rules from August 2024 tax return period onwards this table will be used to add details of taxable outwards supplies to a customer where invoice value for inter-state supplies is less than or equal to Rs. 1 lakh and intra-state supplies to customers for current tax period only and up to July 2024 tax return period, the invoice value should be less than or equal to 2.5 lakhs.

5.    Table 8A, 8B, 8C, 8D - Nil Rated Supplies:  Nil Rated Supplies: To add consolidated details of nil rated, exempted and Non-GST Outward supplies for current tax period only.
6.    Table 9B - Credit / Debit Notes (Registered): To add details of credit or debit notes issued to the registered recipients for current tax period only.
7.    Table 9B - Credit / Debit Notes (Unregistered): To add details of credit, debit notes issued to the unregistered recipients and for export invoices for current tax period only.
8.    Table 11A(1), 11A(2) - Tax Liability (Advances Received): Tax Liability (Advances Received): To add details of transactions attracting tax liability arising on account of Time of Supply (like receipt of advances) for current tax period only.
9.    Table 11B(1), 11B(2) - Adjustment of Advances: To add the advance amount received in current tax period and adjusted against the supplies being shown for current tax period only.
10.    Table 12 - HSN-wise-summary of outward supplies : To furnish the summarized details of all outward supplies HSN and rate wise along with quantitative details for current tax period only.
11.    Table 13 - Documents Issued: To add the details of documents issued for current tax period only.
12.    Table 14 - Supplies made through ECO: To add details of the supplies made through e-commerce operators on which e-commerce operators are liable to collect tax under section 52 of the Act or liable to pay tax u/s 9(5) [Supplier to report] for current tax period
13.    Table 15- Supplies U/s 9(5): To add the details of the supplies made through e-commerce operators on which e-commerce operator is liable to pay tax u/s 9(5) [e-commerce operator to report] for current tax period.
14.    Table 9A - Amended B2B Invoice: To make amendments to details of outward supplies to a registered person of current tax period
15.    Table 9A - Amended B2C (Large) Invoice: To make amendments to taxable outward supplies to an unregistered person of current tax period
16.    Table 9A - Amended Exports Invoices: To make amendments to supplies exported
17.    Table 9C - Amended Credit/ Debit Notes (Registered): To make amendments to details of credit or debit notes issued to the registered recipients of current tax period
18.    Table 9C - Amended Credit/ Debit Notes (Unregistered): To make amendments to details of credit or debit notes issued to the unregistered recipients of current tax period
19.    Table 10 - Amended B2C (Others): To make amendments to details of B2C of current tax period
20.   Table 11A - Amended Tax Liability (Advance Received): Consolidated statement for amendments of information furnished in current tax period
21.    Table 11B - Amended of Adjustment of Advances: Consolidated statement for amendments of information furnished in current tax period
22.    Table 14A - Amended Supplies made through ECO: To amend details of the supplies made through e-commerce operators on which e-commerce operators are liable to collect tax under section 52 of the Act or liable to pay tax u/s 9(5) [Supplier to report] of current tax period.
23.    Table 15A - Amended Supplies U/s 9(5) : To amend the details of the supplies made through e-commerce operators on which e-commerce operator is liable to pay tax u/s 9(5) [e-commerce operator to report] of current tax period.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

For all tables, records are indicated by following:

Processed records – Marked in Green

Errored records – Marked in Red

 

Pending records – Marked in blue

 

Table 4A, 4B, 6B, 6C - B2B,SEZ,DE Invoices

To add an invoice for taxable outwards supplies to a registered person, perform the following steps:

1.1 Click the 4A, 4B, 6B, 6C - B2B Invoices tile to enter the invoice details for B2B transactions (goods/ services sold to a registered taxpayer).

 

B2B Invoices will have following 3 tabs:
•    Recipient wise count- This tab displays details of records added by taxpayer including hyperlinked counts of Processed and Pending/Errored Records.

 

•Document wise details- After clicking the hyperlink on the count of processed records, document wise details tab will open. This tab displays the details of processed records (invoices) of a particular recipient added by the taxpayer.

 

•    Pending/Errored Records- After clicking the hyperlink on the count of pending/errored records, Pending/Errored records tab will open. This tab displays the details of pending/errored records (invoices) of a particular recipient added by the taxpayer. The taxpayers are supposed to take appropriate action on the pending/errored records before filing Form GSTR-1A.
 

 

 

1.2 The B2B Invoices- Recipient wise count tab is displayed. Click the ADD RECORD button to add a new invoice for any recipient.

 

Note: 
•    Details of all records added by taxpayer like Recipient Details, Trade/Legal Name, Taxpayer Type, Processed Records and Pending/Errored Invoices will be displayed in the Record Details table. 
•    ‘IMPORT EWB DATA’ tab shall not be available to the Taxpayer.
 

 

1.3 The B2B,SEZ, DE – Add Invoice page is displayed. In the Receiver GSTIN/UIN field, enter the GSTIN or UIN of the receiver.

1.4 Select the checkbox for Deemed Exports or SEZ Supplies with payment or SEZ supplies without payment as applicable. Select the Supply attract Reverse Charge checkbox, in case supply made to the taxpayer is covered under the reverse charge mechanism. Select the checkbox provided Is the supply eligible to be taxed at a differential percentage (%) of the existing rate of tax, as notified by the Government?

(This functionality will be removed from the portal soon as per corresponding notification) in case supply is eligible to be taxed at a differential percentage of the existing rate of tax.
Note: Deemed export details can be provided for payment of IGST, CGST and SGST payments.

1.5 In the Invoice No., Invoice Date and Total Invoice Value fields, enter the Invoice number, date of the invoice and value of the total invoice.

 

 

Note:

The GSTIN should be registered on the date of invoice.

Once the GSTIN of the receiver is entered, Receiver Name, POS and Supply Type fields are auto-populated based on the GSTIN of the receiver.

The auto-populated POS is editable. Depending on selected POS, the supply type gets auto-populated.

The screen will expand downwards and more fields will appear to enter line item details of the invoice.

In case of UN Bodies, Embassies, Government Offices or Other Notified persons, you need to provide Unique Identification Number (UIN) of the receiver.

An invoice number should be alphanumeric with maximum length of 16 character & allowable special characters (- & /). Invoice number should be unique for a given Financial Year (FY).

 Invoice date cannot be a future date or a date prior to the date of registering with GST. Also invoice date can not be prior to current tax period.

 

1.5 (a) In case of Intra-State transaction: In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the same state as that of the supplier, the transaction is an Intra-State transaction. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount. . Click on SAVE button to save the added details.

Note 1: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. However, the taxpayer can edit the tax amount.

Note 2: Intra-State supplies attracting IGST will be enabled only when the supply attract reverse charge is selected by the taxpayer

 

 

Note 3: On entering UIN,ISD,TDS number in the Recipient GSTIN/UIN field, the Deemed Export, Supply attract reverse charge, SEZ Supply with payment, SEZ Supply without payment and Intra-state supplies attracting IGST checkboxes will be automatically disabled. On entering SEZ number in the Recipient GSTIN/UIN field, the Deemed Export, Supply attract reverse charge and Intra-state supplies attracting IGST checkboxes will be automatically disabled.

 

 

1.5 (b) In case of Inter-State transaction: In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the different from the state of the supplier, the transaction is an Inter-State transaction. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. However, the taxpayer can edit the tax amount.

 

1.6. On clicking of the SAVE button Recipient wise count tab will be displayed on the screen. A message of successful submission will be displayed.

 

You can add invoice of the particular receiver by clicking on the green button under Add document column. Click the BACK button to go back to the Form GSTR 1A.

 

 

1.7. Click on hyperlink under Processed Records column to edit processed records in Document wise details head.

 

 

1.8. Document wise details tab is displayed. Details of processed records added by taxpayer like recipient details, legal name and invoice details will be displayed. Click the BACK button to go to Recipient wise count page.
Note: 
Click on Records Per Page drop-down to view up to 50 records per page. 
You can also search for a particular invoice using the Search field.

 

 

Note: Follow similar steps to access Pending/Errored records by clicking the hyperlink under Pending/Errored records column.

 

1.9. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the B2B Invoices tile in Form GSTR-1A will reflect the number of processed and errored invoices added.
Note: If there are invoices processed with error, the table will be marked in red.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 5- B2C (Large) Invoices

To add an invoice for taxable outwards supplies to a consumer, where place of supply is other than the State where supplier is located (Inter-state supplies) and invoice value is more than Rs. 2.5 lakh, perform the following steps:

 

Note:  As per amended rules from August 2024 tax return period onwards, this table will be used to add an invoice for taxable outwards supplies to a consumer, where place of supply is other than the State where supplier is located (Inter-state supplies) and invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh for current tax period only and up to July 2024 tax return period, the invoice value should be more than 2.5 lakhs.

 

2.1 Click the 5- B2C (Large) Invoices tile to enter the invoice details for inter-state taxable outward supplies made to a consumer of value greater than 2.5 lakh.

 

 

2.2. The B2C (Large) Invoices – Summary page is displayed. Click the ADD RECORD button to add a new invoice for any receiver.
 

 

 

 

2.3. The B2C (Large) Invoices – Details page is displayed. In the POS field, select the place of supply (state code) where the supplies were delivered.

2.4. In the Invoice No. field, enter the Invoice number issued to the consumer of that POS.

Note: An invoice number should be alphanumeric with allowable special characters and unique for a given Financial Year (FY).

2.5. In the Invoice Date field, enter the date on which the invoice was generated.

2.6. In the Total Invoice Value field, enter the total amount for which the goods or services are supplied.

2.7. Select the checkbox provided Is the supply eligible to be taxed at a differential percentage (%) of the existing rate of tax, as notified by the Government?,

 

(This functionality will be removed from the portal soon as per corresponding notification) in case supply is eligible to be taxed at a differential percentage of the existing rate of tax.

 

2.8. In the Taxable Value field against the Rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. However, the taxpayer can edit the tax amount.

 

2.9. Click the SAVE button to save the invoice details.

 

 

Note 1: Add Invoice page will reopen with message of successful submission, once you save the record. You may continue adding new records using this form or click Back icon/button to go back to Processed Records page.

 

 

Note 2: Before August 2024 tax return period, if taxpayer enters less than or equal to 2.5 lacs amount in Total Invoice Value field than clicking on SAVE button following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

From August 2024 tax return period onwards, if taxpayer enters less than or equal to 1 lac amount in Total Invoice Value field than clicking on SAVE button following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

2.10. Click the BACK button to  go back to the GSTR-1A landing page..

Note:You can also edit/delete any saved invoices in GSTR 1A by clicking on edit/delete icon under Actions column.

 

 

2.11. Click on the BACK button to go to GSTR-1A landing page and the B2C (large) Invoices tile in Form GSTR-1A will reflect the number of invoices added.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 6A - Exports Invoices

To add an invoice for supplies exported, perform the following steps:

 

3.1. Click the 6A- Exports Invoices tile to enter the invoice details for supplies exported.

 

 

3.2. The Exports – Invoices  page will be  displayed on the screen. Click the ADD RECORD button to add a new invoice.

 

 

3.3 A pop-up message will be displayed on the screen, Kindly go through the guidelines for refund of IGST paid on export of goods and click OK button to proceed.

 

 

3.4. The Exports – Add Details page is displayed. In the Invoice No. field, enter the Invoice number issued against exports sales.

3.5. In the Invoice Date field, enter the date on which the invoice was generated.

3.6. In the Port Code field, enter the port code.

3.7. In the Shipping Bill No./Bill of Export No. field, enter the unique number of the shipping bill with location code generated while shipping.

Note: Shipping Bill No./Bill of Export No. should be minimum 3 and maximum 15 digit numeric.

3.8. In the Shipping Bill Date/ Bill of Export Date field, enter the date on which the shipping bill was issued.

3.9. In the Total Invoice Value field, enter the total amount of all the goods or services supplied.

3.10. From the GST Payment drop-down list, select whether the GST is paid against the invoice or not.

3.11. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. However, the taxpayer can edit the tax amount.

3.12. Click the SAVE button to save the details.

 

 

Note: Add Invoice page  with message of successful submission, will be displayed on screen once you save the record. You may continue adding new records using this form or click BACK  icon/button to go back to Processed Records page.

 

 

3.13. Click the BACK button to go back to the Processed Records page.

Note: Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete icon under Actions column.

 

 

3.14. Click on the BACK button to go to the GSTR-1A landing page and the Export Invoices tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of invoices added.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 7- B2C Others

To add details of taxable outwards supplies to a customer where invoice value for inter-state supplies is less than Rs. 1 lakh and intra-state supplies to customers, perform the following steps:

 

Note: As per amended rules from August 2024 tax return period onwards this table will be used to add details of taxable outwards supplies to a customer where invoice value for inter-state supplies is less than or equal to Rs. 1 lakh and intra-state supplies to customers and up to July 2024 tax return period, the invoice value should be less than or equal to Rs. 2.5 lakh.

 

4.1. Click the B2C (Others) tile to enter the details for B2C transactions.

 

 

4.2. The B2C (Others) Details  page is displayed. Click the ADD RECORD button to add the line item details.

 

 

4.3. In the POS field, select the Place of Supply (State Code) where the supplies were delivered. Based on the state selected in POS, Supply Type field is auto-populated. In the Taxable Value field, enter the collated amount of all the unique goods or services supplied. In the Rate field, enter the applicable Rate.

 

4.3 (a) In case of Intra-State transaction: In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the same state as that of the supplier, the transaction is an Intra-State transaction and fields for Central Tax and State/UT Tax will appear. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. However, the taxpayer can edit the tax amount.

 

 

4.3 (b) In case of Inter-State transaction: In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the different from the state of the supplier, the transaction is an Inter-State transaction. Notice, field for Integrated Tax will appear. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. However, the taxpayer can edit the tax amount.

 

4.4. Click the SAVE button to save the invoice details.

 

 

Note: Add Invoice page will reopen once you save the record. You may continue adding new records using this form or click Back button to go back to Processed Records page.

 

4.5. Click the BACK button to go back to the Processed Records page. 

Note:

The status of the added invoice is Processed.

Here, you can also edit/delete the saved invoices in GSTR 1A(under Actions).

 

 

4.6. Click on the BACK button to go to GSTR-1A landing page and the B2C Others tile in Form GSTR-1A will reflect the number of invoices added. 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 8A, 8B, 8C, 8D - Nil Rated Supplies

To add an invoice for Nil Rated Supplies, Exempted and Non-GST Outward supplies, perform the following steps:

5.1. Click the Nil Rated Supplies tile to enter the details for Nil rated supplies.

 

 

5.2. The Nil Rated Supplies page is displayed. Enter the data in Nil Rated Supplies, Exempted (Other than Nil rated/non-GST supply), and Non-GST Supplies Amount fields for the following categories of transactions:

Inter-state supplies to registered person

Inter-state supplies to unregistered person

Intra-state supplies to registered person

Intra-state supplies to unregistered person

5.3. Click the SAVE button to save the details.

 

 

5.4. A message of successful submission will be diplayed on the screen. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

 

 

5.5. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the Nil Rated Supplies tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the Total Nil Amount, Total Exempted Amount and Total Non-GST Amount.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 9B - Credit / Debit Notes (Registered)

To add details of credit or debit notes for the registered user, perform the following steps:

 

6.1. Click the 9B - Credit / Debit Notes (Registered) tile to enter the details of credit or debit notes issued to the registered recipients.

 

 

 

6.2. The Credit/Debit Notes (Registered) – Recipient wise count tab is displayed. Click the ADD RECORD button to add credit or debit note details.

 

 

 

6.3. The Credit / Debit Notes (Registered) – Add Note page is displayed. In the Receiver GSTIN/UIN field, enter the GSTIN of the receiver (registered taxpayer) to whom supply is made.

6.4 Select the checkbox for Deemed Exports or SEZ Supplies with payment or SEZ supplies without payment as applicable. Select the Supply attract Reverse Charge checkbox, in case supply made to the taxpayer is covered under the reverse charge mechanism. Select the checkbox provided Is the supply eligible to be taxed at a differential percentage (%) of the existing rate of tax, as notified by the Government?, 

(This functionality will be removed from the portal soon as per corresponding notification) in case supply is eligible to be taxed at a differential percentage of the existing rate of tax.

6.5. In the Debit/Credit Note No. field, enter the debit or credit note number.

Note: A Debit or Credit Note number should be unique for a given Financial Year (FY).

6.6. In the Debit/Credit Note Date field, enter the date on which the debit or credit Note was issued.

Note: The date of debit or credit note should be of current tax period only. 

6.7. From the Note Type drop-down list, select whether the details added are for a Debit or Credit Note.

6.8. In the Note Value field, enter the value of the note.

 

 

6.8 (a) In case of Intra-State transaction: In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the same state as that of the supplier, the transaction is an Intra-State transaction. Fields for Central Tax and State/UT Tax will be appear. In the Taxable Value field against the Rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

 

Note 1: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. However, the taxpayer can edit the tax amount.

 

Note2:

Intra-State supplies attracting IGST will be enabled only when the supply attract reverse charge is selected by the taxpayer.

 On entering UIN,ISD,TDS, number in the Recipient GSTIN/UIN field, the Deemed Export, Supply attract reverse charge, SEZ Supply with payment, SEZ Supply without payment and Intra-state supplies attracting IGST checkboxes will be automatically disabled. 

On entering SEZ number in the Recipient GSTIN/UIN field, the Deemed Export, Supply attract reverse charge and Intra-state supplies attracting IGST checkboxes will be automatically disabled.

 

 

6.8 (b) In case of Inter-State transaction: In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the different from the state of the supplier, the transaction is an Inter-State transaction. Notice, field for Integrated Tax will appear. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. However, the taxpayer can edit the tax amount.

Note: On entering UIN,TDS,ISD number in Recipient GSTIN/UIN field, the Deemed Export, Supply attract reverse charge, SEZ Supply with payment, SEZ Supply without payment and Intra-state supplies attracting IGST checkboxes will be automatically disabled. On entering SEZ number in the Recipient GSTIN/UIN field, the Deemed Export, Supply attract reverse charge and Intra-state supplies attracting IGST checkboxes will be automatically disabled.

 

 

6.9. Click the SAVE button to save the details.

 

 

Note: Add Note page with a message of successfull submission  will be displayed on the screen once you save the record. You may continue adding new records using this form or click BACK icon/button to go back to Recipient wise count tab page.

 

 

6.10. You will be directed to the Record Details page. You can add note of the particular receiver by clicking on the green under Add Note column. Click the BACK button to go back to the Form GSTR 1A.   

 

 

6.11. Click on hyperlink of Processed Note count to edit processed notes.
Note: Follow similar steps for to edit Pending/Errored Note.

 

 

6.12 Document wise details tab is displayed. Details of processed records added by taxpayer like recipient details, legal name and note details will be displayed. Click the BACK button to go to Recipient wise count page.
Note: 

Click on Records Per Page drop-down to view up to 50 records per page. 
You can also search for a particular invoice using the Search field.
 You can click on edit/delete icon under Actions column to edit/delete any saved record in GSTR 1A.

 

 

6.13. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the 9B- Credit/ Debit Notes (Registered) tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of credit/debit notes added.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Table 9B - Credit / Debit Notes (Unregistered)

To add details of credit or debit notes or refund vouchers issued to unregistered persons and for export invoives, perform the following steps:

 

7.1. Click the 9B - Credit / Debit Notes (Unregistered) tile to enter the details of credit or debit notes issued to the unregistered recipients.

 

 

7.2. The Credit/Debit Notes (Unregistered) - Summary page is displayed. Click the ADD RECORD button to add credit or debit note.

 

 

 

7.3. The Credit / Debit Notes (Unregistered) – Add Note page is displayed. Select the checkbox provided Is the supply eligible to be taxed at a differential percentage (%) of the existing rate of tax, as notified by the Government?,(This functionality will be removed from the portal soon as per corresponding notification)  in case supply is eligible to be taxed at a differential percentage of the existing rate of tax.

7.4. From the Type drop-down list, select the appropriate choice like B2CL, exports without payment and exports with payment.

7.5. In the Debit/Credit Note No. field, enter the debit or credit note number.

Note: A Debit or Credit Note number should be unique for a given Financial Year (FY).

7.6. In the Debit/Credit Note Date field, enter the date on which the debit or credit Note was issued.

Note: The date of debit or credit note should be of current tax period.

7.7 In the Note Value field, enter the value of the note.

7.8. From the Note Type drop-down list, select whether the details are added for a Debit or Credit Note.

7.9. In Credit/Debit Notes (Unregistered) if UR type is B2CL, then POS will be inter-state always. In case if UR type is Exports, then POS filed will not be shown, Hence, supply type will be always inter-state and non-editable. Notice, fields for Integrated Tax appear. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. However, the taxpayer can edit the tax amount.

7.10. Click the SAVE button to save the details.

 

 

Note: Add Note page with message of successful submission will be displayed on the screen once you save the record. You may continue adding new records using this form or click BACK icon/button to go back to Processed Records page.

 

7.11. On clicking the BACK button taxpayer will be navigated to the  Processed Records page.

 

 

Note: Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete icon under Actions column.

 

 

7.12. On clicking BACK button you will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the 9B- Credit/ Debit Notes (Unregistered) tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of credit/debit notes added.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 11A(1), 11A(2) - Tax Liability (Advances Received)

To add details of Tax Liability (Advances Received) arising on account of Time of Supply without issuance of Invoice in the same period, perform the following steps:

8.1. Click the Tax Liability (Advances Received) tile to enter the tax liability details

 

 

8.2. The Tax Liability (Advance Received) – Summary page is displayed. Click the ADD STATE WISE DETAILS button to add the advance tax receipt and related liability details.

 

 

8.3. In the POS field, select the State code of the place of supply applicable for the advances received. .

Note: Based on the state code selected, Supply Type column would be auto-populated as Inter-state or Intra-state.

 

8.3 (a) In case of Intra-State transaction:  Fields for Central Tax, State/UT Tax & CESS will appear in the screen. In the Gross Advance Received field, enter the amount paid by the receiver to the supplier for the goods/service provided by the supplier without issuing of any invoice for the goods/services against the applicable Rate (%). In the Central Tax, State/UT Tax field, system will auto-populate the Central Tax and State/UT Tax amount. The same will be editable. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

 

 

8.3 (b) In case of Inter-State transaction: Fields for Integrated Tax & CESS will appear in the screen. In the Gross Advance Received field, enter the amount paid by the receiver to the supplier for the goods/service provided by the supplier without issuing of any invoice for the goods/services against the applicable Rate (%). In the Integrated Tax field, system will auto-populate the Integrated Tax amount. This will be an editable field. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

8.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

Note: Add Details page with a message of successful submission will be displayed on the screen  once you save the record. You may continue adding new records using this form or click BACK icon/button to go back to Processed Records page.

 

 

8.5. On clicking of  the BACK button  Processed Records page will be displayed on the screen. Click on BACK button to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

 

 

Note: Here you can also edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete icon under Actions column.

 

8.6. On clicking of BACK button you will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the Tax Liability (Advance Recieved) tile in GSTR-1 A will updated with the nuber of record added.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Table 11B(1), 11B(2) - Adjustment of Advances

To fill details of Adjustment of Advances on invoices i

 

ssued in the current period, perform the following steps.

9.1. Click the 11B(1), 11B(2)- Adjustment of Advances tile to enter the details of tax already paid on invoices issued in the current period.

 

 

9.2. The T11B(1), 11B(2)- Adjustment of Advances page is displayed. Click the ADD STATE WISE DETAILS button to add details for invoices issued in the current period on which tax has already been paid.

 

 

9.3. The Tax already paid on invoices issued in the current period - Add Details page is displayed. Select the POS from the drop-down list.

 

9.3 (a) In case of Intra-State transaction: Fields for Central Tax, State/UT Tax & Cess will appear in the screen. In the Gross Advance Adjusted (excluding tax) field, enter the amount paid by the receiver to the supplier for the goods/service provided by the supplier without issuing of any invoice for the goods/services against the applicable Rate (%). In the Central Tax, State/UT Tax field, system will auto-populate the Central Tax and State/UT Tax amount. The same will be editable. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

 

 

9.3 (b) In case of Inter-State transaction: Notice, fields for Integrated Tax & Cess will appear in the screen. In the Gross Advance Adjusted field, enter the amount paid by the receiver to the supplier for the goods/service provided by the supplier without issuing of any invoice for the goods/services against the applicable Rate (%). In the Integrated Tax field, system will auto-populate the Integrated Tax amount. This will be an editable field. In the CESS field, enter the CESS amount.

9.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

Note: Add Details page with the message of successful submission will be displayed on the screen once you save the record. You may continue adding new records using this form or click BACK icon/button to go back to Processed Records page.

 

 

9.5. On clicking onf BACK button Processed Record page will be displayed on the screen. Click the BACK button on this page to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

 

 

Note: Here, you can edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete button under Actions column.

 

9.6. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the Adjustment of Advances tile in GSTR-1A will be updated with added records.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Table 12 - HSN-wise-summary of outward supplies - From May'25 Onwards

To furnish the HSN-wise summary of outward supplies along with rate and quantitative details, perform the following steps:

10.1. Click the HSN-wise summary of outward supplies tile to furnish the summarized details of all outward supplies HSN-wise along with rate and quantitative details.

Note: You can import the data from e-Way Bill (EWB) System by clicking on the IMPORT EWB DATA button. To view step-by-step instructions on how to do this, click here. 

 

 

10.2. The 12-HSN summary of outward supplies – Add/Edit Details page is displayed. Taxpayer can see two tabs namely B2B Supplies and B2C Supplies. By default B2B Supplies tab will be opened.

 

 

10.3 In the HSN field, enter HSN details from the drop-down.

 

 

Note 1: Taxpayer can select HSN code from drop down only. Manual entry of HSN code is not allowed.

 

Note 2: Taxpayer can select HSN code by entering at least 2 digits or 4 characters in the field for HSN. When taxpayer enters digits/characters  in HSN field, related details will appear in the drop-down list. Taxpayer can select the relevant  HSN code from the drop down and description will be auto-populated.

 

a: If the user enters a single digit in HSN, an error message will be displayed on the screen.   

 

 

b: If the user enters an invalid HSN, an error message will be displayed on the screen. In this case, the user will not be allowed to proceed further.

 

 

c. If a taxpayer, whose turnover is less than 5 crores, enters less than 4 digits of HSN code, an error message will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

d: If the user enters more than 8 digits in the HSN, an error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

e: If a taxpayer, whose turnover is more than 5 crores, enters less than 4 digits of HSN, an error message will be displayed on the screen.  

 

 

f. Taxpayer can search HSN code by description also. For Example: If taxpayer enters Telephone in HSN field, all HSN codes having Telephone in HSN description will come in drop-down list and taxpayer can select from available values.

 

 

 

10.4. After adding HSN from drop down list, Description as per HSN Code will be auto-populated. Taxpayer can write more description in Description column.

 

 

 

10.5 In the UQC field, select the appropriate Unique Quantity Code in the drop-down list. 

 

 

10.6. Enter values in Total Quantity, Total taxable value and Integrated tax field.

 

 

10.7. In the Rate field, select the Rate from the drop-down list.

 

 

10.8. If the entered details are not present in the Product master, then the following message will appear on the screen.

 

 

Note: Thus, taxpayer can also make an entry for the HSN code manually in the HSN field, if he/she is unable to find the requisite HSN code in the drop down. The combination of HSN, UQC and Rate must be unique. GST Portal will not allow more than one entry with combination of HSN, UQC and Rate. For Example: If taxpayer has entered 1100 as HSN code, Kg as UQC and rate as 5%, they cannot add another entry with same HSN, UQC and rate. But they can make another entry with 1100 as HSN code, Kg as UQC and rate as 12%.

 

10.9. To make an entry, click on ADD TO MY MASTER.

 

10.10.  A pop-up titled Add Product Master appears. Enter the Product Name and click the Save button. 

 

 10.11. A success message will appear. Close the pop-up. The Product Name as saved in My Master will be auto-populated.

 

 

Note: The Product name added here can be searchable from Product Name as in My Master.

10.12. In the Integrated Tax and Cess field, enter the Integrated tax and the Cess amount.
10.13. In the Total Taxable Value field, enter the Total Taxable Value of the outward supply.
10.14. In the Central tax field, enter the Central tax amount. 

10.15. In the State/UT tax field, enter the State/UT tax amount. 

10.16. Click the ADD button.

 

 

10.17. On clicking ADD button, the following message is displayed on top of the page. 

 

 

10.18. The added records are moved to Added/Edited Invoices to be saved section.

 

 

10.19. On click of SAVE, records will move to Processed Records table. 

 

 

10.20. Check the records reflected in the Processed Records table.

 

 

Note 1:

You can click the EDIT button to edit the added details.
You can click the DELETE button to delete the added details.
You can click the RESET button to delete all the added details at one-go.
You can add more HSN wise details by entering the HSN Code in HSN field.
You can use Search feature to search for required details, which is applicable across all columns.
To view records per page, select the required number of records from the Records Per Page drop-down list.
To search in the list of added records, enter the relevant text/value in the Search field.

 

Note 2: Upon clicking of this Download HSN Codes List button, the taxpayer can download an excel sheet which contains the list of HSN codes for goods & services along with its Description.

 

10.21 Now click on B2C Supplies tab. Taxpayer can fill all the details and proceed further similar to B2B Supplies.

 

 

Note: The process of adding and saving  records under B2C Supplies tab is the same as B2B Supplies.

 

10.22. On click of BACK  button, you will be re-directed to Form GSTR-1 page where the HSN summary of outward supplies tile will reflect the number of successfully processed HSN records that have been added.

 

Table 12 - HSN-wise-summary of outward supplies 

To furnish the HSN-wise summary of outward supplies along with rate and quantitative details, perform the following steps:

10.1. Click the HSN-wise summary of outward supplies tile to furnish the summarized details of all outward supplies HSN-wise along with rate and quantitative details.

 

10.2. The HSN summary of outward supplies – Add/Edit Details page is displayed.

10.3. In the HSN field, enter the HSN/SAC code of the outward supplies. 

Note1:

Taxpayer can select HSN code by entering at least 2 digits or 4 characters in the field for HSN. When taxpayer enters digits/characters  in HSN field, related details will appear in the drop-down list. Taxpayer can select the relevant  HSN code from the drop down and description will be auto-populated.

 

 

 

Note2:

 If the user enters an invalid HSN, an error message will appear. The user can still add the record with the entered HSN which is not available in the field. 
 

 

Note3:

•    If the user enters a single digit in HSN, an error message will appear. 

 

Note4:
•    If the user enters more than 8 digits in the HSN, an error message will appear.

 

Note5:
•    If a taxpayer, whose turnover is more than 5 crores, enters less than 4 digits of HSN, an error will appear.  

 

 

Taxpayer can search HSN code by description also. For Example: If taxpayer enters Telephone in HSN field, all HSN codes having Telephone in HSN description will come in drop-down list and taxpayer can select from available values.

 

 

 

Note6:
•    If a taxpayer, whose turnover is less than 5 crores, enters less than 4 digits of HSN, an error will appear. 

 

 

Note 7: If the taxpayer had less than 5-crore aggregate turnover in the preceding financial year, the drop-down list will show HSN code either at 4-digit, 6-digit or 8-digit.

 

 

Note 8: If the taxpayer had more than 5-crore aggregate turnover in the preceding financial year, the drop-down list will show HSN code at either 6-digit or 8-digit values.

 

 

10.4. In the UQC field, select the appropriate Unique Quantity Code in the drop-down list. 

10.5. In the Total Quantity field, enter the quantity.

10.6. In the Total Taxable Value field, enter the Total Taxable Value of the outward supply.

10.7. In the Rate field, select the Rate from the drop-down list.

10.8. After the UQC and Rate are selected an Add to Master button appears below the HSN field. From here, you can add the product to My Master. 

Note 9: 

Taxpayer can also make an entry for the HSN code manually in the HSN field, if he/she is unable to find the requisite HSN code in the drop down. 
The combination of HSN, UQC and Rate must be unique. GST Portal will not allow more than one entry with same HSN, UQC and Rate combination.
For Example: If taxpayer has entered 1100 as HSN code, Kg as UQC and rate as 5%, they cannot add another entry with same HSN, UQC and rate. But he can add another entry with 1100 as HSN code, Kg as UQC and rate as 12%.

 

10.9. Click the Add to Master button. A pop-up titled Add Product Master appears. Enter the Product Name and click the Save button. 

 

 10.10. A success message will appear. Close the pop-up. The Product Name as saved in My Master will be auto-populated.

 

Note: 
•    The HSN data added here will now also be available in the Product Master table.    
•    If the product already exists in the Product master, the name of the product can be entered in the HSN field  and the same will reflect in the drop-down. The HSN code, HSN escription, Product Name in master, UQC and IGST Rate will then be auto-populated. 

10.11. In the Integrated Tax and Cess field, enter the Integrated tax and the Cess amount.
10.12. In the Total Taxable Value field, enter the Total Taxable Value of the outward supply.
10.13. In the Central tax field, enter the Central tax amount. 

10.14. In the State/UT tax field, enter the State/UT tax amount. 

10.15. Click the ADD button.

 

 

10.16. Once the ADD button is clicked, the added records are moved to Added/Edited Invoices to be saved section. Once all details are added, click the SAVE button.. You can click on edit/delete icon under Actions column to edit/delete any saved record in GSTR 1A.

 

 

10.17. A message of successful submission will be displayed on the screen . On click of SAVE button, records will move to processed table from added/edited invoices to be saved table. Click the BACK button to go back to the Form GSTR-1A page.

 

 

10.18. You will be directed to the Form GSTR-1A landing page and the HSN summary of outward supplies tile in Form GSTR-1A will be updated with added details.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 13 - Documents Issued

To Upload the details of Documents issued perform the following steps.

 

11.1. Click the Documents Issued tile to add the details for document issued during the current tax period.

 

 

11.2. To update the document for Invoices for outward supply, Click on Add Document:

 

 

11.3. Add the details for different categories. You can click ADD DOCUMENT button to add more rows for each category.

11.4. Click SAVE at the end of the page.

 

 

11.5. A message is displayed that Request accepted successfully. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

 

 

 

Note: Here, you can also delete the added invoices by clicking on delete icon under Action column.

 

11.6. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the Documents Issued summary tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of documents issued along with Total Docs, Cancelled Docs and Net Issued Docs.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 14 – Supplies made through ECO

To add details in Supplies made through ECO, perform the following steps:
12.1. Click the 14- Supplies made through ECO tile.

 

 

12.2. The Supplies through ECO page will be displayed.
 There will be two tabs:
a. Liable to collect tax u/s 52 (TCS)
b. Liable to pay tax u/s 9(5)
Note: By default, Liable to collect tax u/s 52(TCS) tab will be opened.

 

 

Note: On clicking back button, system will navigate back to GSTR-1A landing page.
12.3. Click on ADD RECORD button. 

 

 

12.4. The below page is displayed.

 

12.5. Enter the GSTIN of e-commerce operator, Net values of supplies, Integrated tax, Central tax, State/UT tax, Cess in the respective fields, then click on SAVE button.

 

 

Note: You can enter the GSTIN of e-commerce operator, Net values of supplies, Integrated tax, Central tax, State/UT tax, Cess in the respective  fields of Liable to collect tax u/s 9 (5) page, then click on SAVE button.

 

 

Note: A message of  successful submission  will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

 

12.6. The Processed Records page will be displayed.

 

 

For Liable to pay tax u/s 9(5):  
12.7. Click on ADD RECORD button.

 

 

12.8. The Liable to pay tax u/s 9(5) page is displayed.
12.9. Enter the GSTIN of e-commerce operator, Net values of supplies, Integrated tax, Central tax, State/UT tax, Cess in the respective  fields, then click on SAVE button.

 

 

12.10. The Processed Records  page will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note: In case the taxpayer intends to edit/delete the record, taxpayer can click on edit/delete icon under Actions column. Then system will open the pre-filled record in edit details page, and it will allow to edit the following fields:
1. Net values of supplies 
2. The tax amounts (Integrated tax, Central tax, State/UT tax and Cess) 
 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 15 -Supplies U/s 9(5)

To add details in Supplies U/s 9(5) by E-commerce operator, perform the following steps:
13.1. Click the 15 - Supplies U/s 9(5).

 

 

13.2. The Supplies U/s 9(5) page will be displayed.There are four tabs:
a. Registered to Registered (B2B)
b. Registered to Unregistered (B2C)
c. Unregistered to Registered (URP2B)
d. Unregistered to Unregistered (URP2C)

By default, Registered to Registered tab will be opened.

 

 

Note: On clicking back button, system will navigate back to GSTR-1A landing page.

Registered to Registered (B2B)
13.3. Click on ADD RECORD button.

 

 

13.4. The Supplies U/s 9(5) page will be displayed.

 

 

 

Note 1: The System will provide the three optional check boxes at the top of Add details page:

a.- Deemed Exports – In case the supply is considered as deemed export, then taxpayer can select the checkbox. 

b. SEZ Supplies with payment – In case the supply is made to SEZ recipients GSTIN with payment of taxes, then taxpayer can select this checkbox. 
c. SEZ Supplies without payment- In case the supply is made to SEZ recipients GSTIN without payment of taxes, then taxpayer can select this checkbox. 
Note 2: On Clicking Back button, system will navigate the taxpayer to GSTR-1A landing page.
Processed Records  

13.5. Enter the Supplier GSTIN/UIN, Recipient GSTIN/UIN, Document number, Document date, Total value of supplies made (₹), Supply type, Item details, select the POS from drop-down list., then click on SAVE button.

 

 

13.6. A message of successful submission will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

13.7. The Record Details page will be displayed.

 

 

13.8. Click on hyperlink under Processed records column.

 

 

 

13.9. The Processed records page will be displayed.

 

Note: In case the taxpayer intends to edit/delete any saved record in GSTR 1A, taxpayer can click on edit/delete icon.

 

 

13.10. Click  hyperlink under Pending /Unread records column.

 

 

13.11. The Pending Records page is displayed.

 

 

Note: In case the taxpayer intends to edit the record, taxpayer can click on edit icon.

 

Registered to Unregistered(B2C)

13.12. Click on ADD RECORD button.

 

 

 

13.13. The Supplies U/s 9(5)-B2C page will be displayed.

 

 

13.14.Enter the Supplier GSTIN/UIN, Taxable value, Integrated tax, in case of interstate supply. However for intrastate supply Central tax and State tax field will be visible. Select the POS and Rate from drop-down list, then click on SAVE button.

 

 

13.15. A message of successful submission will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

 

13.16. The Processed Records details will be displayed.

 

Unregistered to Registered(URP2B)

13.7.Click on ADD RECORD button.

 

 

13.8. The Supplies U/s 9(5) URP2B page will be displayed. Enter the Recipient GSTIN/UIN, Document number, Document date, Total value of supplies made, Item details, Select the POS from drop-down list, then click on SAVE button.

 

 

13.9. A success message will be displayed.

 

 

13.10. The Records Details will be displayed.

 

 

Unregistered to Unregistered(URP2C)

 

13.11..Click on ADD RECORD button.

 

13.12. The Supplies U/s 9(5)-URP2C page will be displayed.

 

 

13.13. Select the POS, Rate from drop-down list, enter the Taxable value, then click on SAVE button.

 

 

13.14. A success message will be displayed.

 

 

13.15. The Pending Records details will be displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 9A - Amended B2B Invoice

Through GSTR 1A records pertaining to same tax period can be amended. 
To make amendments to details of outward supplies to a registered person furnished in GSTR-1 return of same tax periods, perform the following steps:

 

14.1. Click the 9A - Amended B2B Invoice tile.

 

 

14.2. By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field . In the Invoice No. field, enter the invoice number which you want to amend  of the current tax period. Click the AMEND RECORD button.

 

 

14.3. In the Revised Invoice No. field, enter the revised invoice number for the previous invoice. Select the Revised Date using the calendar. Make amendments to the details as required. Click the SAVE button.

Please note you can not amend the receiver GSTIN while amending the records. 

Note: Intra-State supplies attracting IGST will be enabled only when the supply attract reverse charge is selected by the taxpayer.

 

 

14.4. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that Request accepted successfully. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

Note:

The status of the added invoice is Processed.

Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete icon under Actions column.

 

 

14.5. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the 9A - Amended B2B Invoice tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of such invoices amended along with Total Tax Liability. It should be noted that you have to pay the tax in this tax period only on the differential liability.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Table 9A - Amended B2C (Large) Invoice

To make amendments to taxable outward supplies to an unregistered person of current tax periods, perform the following steps:

 

15.1. Click the 9A - Amended B2C (Large) Invoice tile.

 

 

15.2.By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field . In the Invoice No. field, enter the invoice number which you want to amend of the current tax period. Click the AMEND RECORD button.

 

 

15.3. In the Revised/ Original Invoice No. field, enter the revised or original invoice number for the previous invoice. Select the Revised/ Original Invoice Date using the calendar. Make amendments to the details as required.  Click the SAVE button to save the amendments.

 

Please note you can not amend the receiver GSTIN while amending the records.

 

 

Note: Before August 2024 tax return period if taxpayer enters amount less than or equal to 2.5 lac in Total Invoice Value field than on clicking of SAVE button following error will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

From August 2024 tax return period onwards if taxpayer enters amount less than or equal to 1 lac in Total Invoice Value field than on clicking of SAVE button following error will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

15.4. You will be directed to the previous page and a message will be displayed that Request accepted successfully. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

Note:

The status of the added invoice is Processed.

Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete icon under Actions column.

 

 

15.5. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the 9A - Amended B2C (Large) Invoice tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of such invoices amended along with Total Tax Liability.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 9A - Amended Exports Invoices

To make amendments to supplies exported, perform the following steps:

16.1. Click the 9A - Amended Exports Invoices tile.

 

 

16.2. By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field, enter the invoice number which you want to amend of the current tax period. Click the AMEND RECORD button to amend the details.

 

 

16.3. In the Revised/ Original Invoice No. field, enter the revised or original invoice number for the previous invoice. Select the Revised/ Original Invoice Date using the calendar. Make amendments to the details as required. Click the SAVE button to save the amendments.

 

 

16.4. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that Request accepted successfully. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

Note:

The status of the added invoice is Processed.

Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete icons under Actions column.

 

 

16.5. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the 9A - Amended Exports Invoices tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of such invoices amended along with Total Tax Liability.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 9C - Amended Credit/ Debit Notes (Registered)

To make amendments to details of credit or debit notes issued to the registered recipients of current tax periods, perform the following steps:

17.1. Click the 9C - Amended Credit/ Debit Notes (Registered) tile.

 

 

17.2. By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field. In the Credit/Debit Note No. field, enter the credit or debit number which you want to amend of the current tax period. Click the AMEND RECORD button.

 

 

17.3. In the Revised Credit/ Debit Note No. field, enter the revised credit or debit Note number. Select the Revised Credit/ Debit Note Date using the calendar. Make amendments to the details as required. Click the SAVE button to save the details.

 

Please note you can not amend the receiver GSTIN while amending the records.

 

 

Note : Intra-State supplies attracting IGST will be enabled only when the supply attract reverse charge is selected by the taxpayer.

 

17.4. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that Request accepted successfully. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

 

 

Note:

The status of the added invoice is Processed.

Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete icon under Actions column.

 

17.5. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the 9C - Amended Credit/ Debit Notes (Registered) tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of such invoices amended along with Taxable value and Tax amount which will be the differential amount (net of amended debit notes – amended credit notes)

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 9C - Amended Credit/ Debit Notes (Unregistered)

To make amendments to details of credit or debit notes issued to the unregistered recipients of current tax periods, perform the following steps:

18.1. Click the 9C - Amended Credit/ Debit Notes (Unregistered) tile.

 

 

18.2. By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field. In the Credit/Debit Note No. field, enter the credit or debit note number which you want to amend of the current tax period. Click the AMEND RECORD button to make amendments.

 

 

18.3. In the Revised Debit/ Credit Note No. field, enter the revised credit or debit number. Select the Revised Debit/ Credit Note Date using the calendar. Make amendments to the details as required. Click the SAVE button.

Note: 
•    Intra-State supplies attracting IGST will be enabled only when the supply attract reverse charge is selected by the taxpayer.
 

 

18.4. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that Request accepted successfully. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

Note:

The status of the added invoice is Processed.

Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete icon under Actions column.

 

 

18.5. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the 9C - Amended Credit/ Debit Notes (Unregistered) tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of such invoices amended.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 10 - Amended B2C (Others)

To make amendments to details of credit or debit notes issued to the unregistered recipients of current tax periods, perform the following steps:

 

To amend details of B2C furnished in current tax period, perform the following steps:

 

19.1. Click the 10 - Amended B2C (Others) tile.

 

 

19.2. By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field. Select the Original POS of line item of the declarations of current tax period from the drop-down list. Click the AMEND RECORD button to amend the details.

 

 

Note: To amend the POS of current tax period, you can save the POS with zero value table 10 and add new POS in table 7 of GSTR-1A of same tax period.

 

19.3.  Make the amendments as required. You cannot amend the Place of Supply field/s of the line items furnished earlier. Click the SAVE button.

 

19.4. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that Request accepted successfully. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

Note:

The status of the added invoice is Processed.

Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete icon under Actions column.

 

 

19.5. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the 10 - Amended B2C (Others) tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of such invoices amended.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 11A - Amended Tax Liability (Advance Received):

To amend statement of Advances Received(Net of refund vouchers, if any) in current tax period, perform the following steps:

20.1. Click the 11A - Amended Tax Liability (Advance Received) tile.

 

 

20.2. By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field. Select the  Original POS of the line item of the declarations of current tax period from the drop-down list. Click the AMEND RECORD button.

 

 

20.3. Make the amendments as required. You cannot amend the Advance Tax Place of Supply (PoS) field/s of the line items furnished earlier. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

20.4. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that Request accepted successfully. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

Note:

The status of the added invoice is Processed.

Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete icon under Actions column.

 

 

20.5. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the 11A - Amended Tax Liability (Advance Received) tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of such invoices amended.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 11B - Amended of Adjustment of Advances

To amend statement of Advances Adjusted in current tax period, perform the following steps:

21.1. Click the 11B - Amended of Adjustment of Advances tile.

 

 

21.2. By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field. Select the Original POS from the drop-down list. Select the Return Filing Period of the line item of the declarations of current tax period from the drop-down list. Click the AMEND RECORD button

 

 

21.3. Make the amendments as required. You cannot amend the Advance Tax Place of supply (PoS) field/s of the line items furnished earlier. Click the SAVE button.

 

21.4. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that Request accepted successfully. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-1A page.

Note:

The status of the added invoice is Processed.

Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices by clicking on edit/delete icon under Actions column.

 

 

21.5. You will be directed to the GSTR-1A landing page and the 11B - Amended of Adjustment of Advances tile in GSTR-1A will reflect the number of such invoices amended.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

Table 14A- Amended Supplies made through E- Commerce Operators: 

To amend the supplies recorded  in able 14 in current tax period in GSTR 1.
To amend the records in table 14A perform the following steps:
22.1 Click on 14A- Amended Supplies made through ECO to amend the supplies 

 

 

22.2 14A table will be displayed, it will have following two tabs:
1.    Liable to collect tax u/s 52 (TCS) (By default this tab will be displayed) 
2.    Liable to pay tax u/s 9(5)

Liable to collect tax u/s 52 (TCS)

22.3  By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field, enter GSTIN of e-commerce operator and click on AMEND RECORD button.

 

 

 

22.4 If all the parameter entered in a correct manner, Amend Details page will be  displayed. Amend the details and click on SAVE button.

 

 

22.5 A success message will be displayed on the screen.

 

22.6 After saving the details 14A page will be displayed with Processed Records table, displaying records that you have successfully amended.

Note: All the procedure is similar for other tab i.e., Liable to pay tax u/s 9(5).

22.7 After adding the records click on Back button it will redirect to GSTR1A page.

Table 15A- Amended Supplies made through E- Commerce Operators:

To amend the supplies recorded  in GSTR-1 of current tax period in Table 15, ECO will perform the following steps:

23.1 Click on 15A- Amended Supplies U/s 9(5) to amend the supplies recorded earlier in table 15.

 

 

 

23.2 15A table is displayed it has following 4 tabs:
1.    Registered to Registered (by default this option will be selected)
2.    Registered to Unregistered
3.    Unregistered to Registered
4.    Unregistered to Unregistered

 

 Registered to Registered

23.3 By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field and enter the Document No. in respective field and click on AMEND RECORD button. Amended Details page will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

23.4 In the Amended detail page Supplier GSTIN/UIN, Supplier name, Recipient GSTIN/UIN, Recipient name, Revised/Original document no., Revised/Original document date will be auto populated and will be non editable. You can amend the rest of the fields according to your choice.

 

Please note you can not amend the receiver GSTIN while amending the records.

Click on the SAVE button after making the changes.

 

 

23.5 15A page is displayed with Processed Records table. You can click on edit/delete icon under Actions column to edit/delete the added record. Click on BACK button to go to GSTR-1A landing page.

 

Registered to Unregistered (B2C)

23.6 By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field.  Enter Original POS, and Supplier GSTIN/UIN and click on AMEND RECORD button.

 

 

Note : To amend the POS of current tax period, you can save the POS with zero value and add new POS in table 15 of GSTR-1A of same tax period.

23.7 In the Amend Details page add the details that you want to amend. Click on SAVE button to save the details. 

 

23.8 on clicking of SAVE button,  Processed Records page will be displayed. You can click on edit/delete icon under Actions column to edit/delete the added record. Click on BACK button to go to GSTR-1A landing page.

 

Unregistered to Registered (URP2B)

23.9. By default, GSTR-1A  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field,  Enter Document No.   and click  on AMEND RECORD button.

 

 

23.10. In the Amend Details page enter the  fields that you want to amend and click on SAVE button to save the added details.

 

Please note you can not amend the receiver GSTIN while amending the records.

 

 

23.11. 15A page will be displayed with the PROCESSED RECORDS table. You can edit/delete the added details by clicking on edit/delete icons under Actions column.

Click on BACK button to go on GSTR-1A page.

 

Unregistered to Unregistered (URP2C)

23.12.  By default, GSTR-1  current tax period will be selected under the Financial Year and Original Return Period field.  Enter Original POS mandatory fields  and click  AMEND RECORD button.

 

 

Note: To amend the POS of current tax period, you can save the POS with zero value and add new POS in table 15 of GSTR-1A of same tax period

 

23.13.  Enter the details in  Item Details field if you want to amend  records and click on SAVE button. 

 

 

23.14.  15A page will displayed on the screen with Processed Records table.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

D. Deleting any saved documents details in Form GSTR-1A.

Note: To delete details in Form GSTR-1A, you can

 

1. Either go to individual tables and delete any saved details in GSTR 1A within the tile using the delete icon or reset all the saved records of GSTR 1A.

      

 

2. Click RESET button to delete details of all tiles at one go.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

E. Generate Form GSTR-1A Summary

1. Generate Summary: Once the records are saved in GSTR-1A taxpayer shall be required to click on the new Generate Summary button. System will acknowledge the request and taxpayer will then be required to refresh the GSTR-1A dashboard page by clicking refresh icon at the top of page.

 

 

On successful generation of summary following message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 1: Taxpayers who have opted for registration under Rule 14A via Form GST REG-01 will not be allowed to generate GSTR-1A summary if the cumulative tax reported on registered supplies (B2B) in GSTR-1 and GSTR-1A together exceeds ₹2.5 Lakhs per month. 
The following error message will be displayed on the screen for taxpayers who have opted for registration under Rule 14A on click of GENERATE SUMMARY button, if reported taxes on registered   supplies exceed Rs. 2.5 lakhs per month.   
 

 

Note 2: In case there is no data entered by the taxpayer in B2B Supplies tab of Table 12, although there is data in other B2B tables of GSTR-1A, the following error message will be displayed and the taxpayer will be stopped from generating summary.

 

 

Similarly, in case there is no data entered by the taxpayer in B2C Supplies tab of Table 12, although there is data in other B2C tables of GSTR-1A, a warning message will be displayed after clicking Generate Summary as follows: 

 

 

This warning message will be displayed in case where there is only data in B2C tables of GSTR-1A and some data in table 13 and the taxpayer clicks in generate summary without entering any details in both the tabs of Table 12.

 

Note 3: In case the taxable values or tax amounts entered in Table 12 (B2B Supplies) do not match with the totals in Table 4, 6B, 6C, 8 (recipient registered), 9A (B2B), 9B(registered), 9C(registered), 15 & 15A (where recipient is registered). A warning message will be displayed after clicking Generate Summary as follows: 

 

 

Similarly, In case the taxable values or tax amounts entered in Table 12 (B2C Supplies) do not match with the totals in Table 4, 6B, 6C, 8 (recipient registered), 9A (B2C), 9B(registered), 9C(registered), 15 & 15A (where recipient is registered). A warning message will be displayed after clicking Generate Summary.

 

Note 4: In case the validation of taxable value & tax amounts of B2B supplies fails and taxpayer has also not entered any data in B2C tab of Table 12, then the following combined warning message will be displayed.

 

 

Note 5: In cases where there is data in B2B tables but no data in both table 12(B2B Tab) and Table 13, then two error messages will be shown one below the other upon clicking Generate Summary button:

 

 

On successful generation of summary following message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 6: If the taxable value or tax amount of an invoice is amended in Table 9A, 9C, or 15A during the current period, then for Table 12 (B2B Supplies), only the differential amount (the difference between the amended and original values) will be considered. 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

F. Proceed to File Form GSTR-1A/Summary

After successful generation of summary, taxpayer will see a new ‘Proceed to File/Summary’ button at the bottom of the GSTR-1A page. In case any new record(s) are added after previous summary generation, the taxpayer will be required to click the ‘Generate Summary’ button again to get latest summary. After this, the taxpayer will be navigated to the consolidated summary page containing table-wise summary of the total records added in Form GSTR-1 and GSTR-1A so far.

 

1. Click the PROCEED TO FILE/SUMMARY button to view the table-wise consolidated summary of added records. 
Note: Please ensure that the values entered for each record is correct before you click on PROCEED TO FILE/SUMMARY button. The values cannot be edited or deleted once the GSTR-1A statement is filed. 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

G. Preview Form GSTR-1A summary and  Consolidated Summary of GSTR-1 & GSTR-1A

Consolidated Summary – After generation of GSTR-1A summary, taxpayers may note the following changes:

Status change from Not filed to Ready to file.
‘Proceed to File/Summary’ button will be replaced by ‘File Statement’ button.

 

1. The consolidated summary page will be displayed. This page will contain the records of GSTR-1 and GSTR-1A.
To download the summary, click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-1A SUMMARY (PDF) button and to download consolidated summary click on DOWNLOAD CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY (PDF) button 

 

 

Note 1: Taxpayer can minimize or expand the CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY page by clicking on expand icon  .

 

 

Note 2: From August 2024 tax return period onwards following Consolidated Summary will be displayed on the screen where , table 5 - Taxable outward inter-state supplies made to unregistered persons (where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh) including supplies made through e-commerce operator, rate wise - B2CL (Large) and table 9A - Amendment to Inter-State supplies made to unregistered person (where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh) in returns of current tax period in table 5 - B2CL (Large) is updated.

 

Note 3: From May 2025 tax return period onwards, following table will be displayed on the screen, where table 12 - HSN wise summary of outward supplies is bifurcated into two tabs namely B2B Supplies and B2C Supplies.

 

 

2.  On click of DOWNLOAD GSTR-1A SUMMARY(PDF) button, the table-wise consolidated summary will be downloaded in pdf format.

 

 

Note: From August 2024  tax  return period onwards, following PDF will be downloaded in the system where , table 5 - Taxable outward inter-state supplies made to unregistered persons (where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh) including supplies made through e-commerce operator, rate wise - B2CL (Large) and table 9A - Amendment to Inter-State supplies made to unregistered person (where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh) in returns of current tax period in table 5 - B2CL (Large) is updated.

 

 

Note: From May 2025 tax return period onwards, following table-wise consolidated summary (GSTR-1A preview) will be downloaded in pdf format on clicking of DOWNLOAD(PDF) button, where table 12 - HSN wise summary of outward supplies is bifurcated into two tabs namely B2B Supplies and B2C Supplies. 

 

 

 

3. On clicking of DOWNLOAD CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY (PDF) button following consolidated summary will be downloaded. This PDF will contain the records filed in GSTR-1 and GSTR-1A.

 

 

Note: From August 2024 tax return period onwards, following PFD will be downloaded in the system where , table 5 - Taxable outward inter-state supplies made to unregistered persons (where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh) including supplies made through e-commerce operator, rate wise - B2CL (Large) and table 9A - Amendment to Inter-State supplies made to unregistered person (where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh) in returns of current tax period in table 5 - B2CL (Large) is updated.

 

 

Note: From May 2025 tax return period onwards, following table-wise consolidated summary will be downloaded in pdf format on clicking of DOWNLOAD(PDF) button, where table 12 - HSN wise summary of outward supplies is bifurcated into two tabs namely B2B Supplies and B2C Supplies. 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

H. File Form GSTR-1A with DSC/EVC

1. After verifying the consolidated summary, click “File Statement” button available at the bottom of the consolidated summary page.

 

 

2. After clicking on the FILE STATEMENT button, the following screen will be displayed.

 

 

3. On clicking the checkbox CONFIRM button will be enabled.

 

 

4. Click on the CONFIRM button.

 

 

Note 1: The following success message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 2: If GSTR-2B has not been computed after taking action on IMS dashboard then on click on the Confirm button below popup warning message will be displayed with YES and NO button.

 

 

On click of NO button, taxpayer will be staying on the same declaration page and not able to proceed further for filing 1A form. Taxpayer has to go to IMS dashboard and compute the GSTR2B form.

 

On click of YES button, following message will be displayed on the screen along with confirmation message and taxpayer can be able to proceed with filing of return.

 

 

5. Click on the refresh button.

 

 

6. After clicking refresh button, the following screen will be displayed and confirm button will change to READY TO FILE.

 

 

7. Click on the DOWNLOAD DECLARATION button.

 

 

8. After clicking on the DOWNLOAD DECLARATION button, the following PDF will be downloaded in the system.

 

 

9. Click on the READY TO FILE button.

 

 

10. The Returns Filing for Form GSTRA page is displayed. Select the Declaration checkbox. In the Authorised Signatory drop-down list, select the authorized signatory. Click the FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button to file GSTR-1A.

Note: On filing of Form GSTR-1A, notification through e-mail and SMS is sent to the Authorized Signatory.

 

 

10.1 FILE WITH DSC:

a. Click on the PROCEED button.

b. Select the certificate and click on the SIGN button.

 

10.2 FILE WITH EVC:

a.  Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click on the VERIFY button.

 

 

11. The success message will be displayed and ARN will be displayed. Status of the GSTR-1A return will be changed to Filed.

NAVIGATE TO GSTR3B button will be enabled. On click of this button, taxpayer will navigate to GSTR-3B form of the same month.

 

Note: Once GSTR-1A is filed, taxpayer can be able to download the filed declaration form.
 

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[21] Filing Form GSTR-1A - Details of Outward Supplies of Goods or Services by Normal Taxpayer - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_Creation_of_Outward_Supplies_Return_in_GSTR-1A.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Form GSTR-1A
1. What is Form GSTR-1A? Who is required to file Form GSTR-1A? 

A taxpayer who needs to amend any supply record furnished in GSTR 1 or need to add any supply record of same tax period, the same can be done through GSTR 1A in the same month after filing of GSTR-1 and before filing of GSTR-3B.

 

E.g. GSTR 1 for the month of August 2024 has been furnished by the taxpayer on 10th of
September 2024. Taxpayer committed a mistake in 2 records and missed to report one record
in its GSTR 1. Now GSTR 1A shall be opened for him/her on 10th of September or due date of GSTR
1 (i.e. 11th of September) whichever is later. The Taxpayer will be able to amend the incorrect
record and shall also be able to add the missed record in Form GSTR 1A. The correct value shall
be auto populated in its GSTR 3B.

2. When GSTR 1A will be available for filing? 

GSTR -1A will be open for monthly filer from the later of the following two dates, till the actual filing of GSTR-3B of the same tax period:
1. Due date of filing of GSTR1 i.e., 11th of the following month or
2. Date of actual filing of GSTR-1
GSTR -1A will be open for quarterly filer from the later of the following two dates, till the filing of GSTR-3B of the same tax period (Quarter):
1. Due date of filing the GSTR1 i.e., 13th of the month following the end of quarter.
2. Date of actual filing of GSTR-1 (Quarterly).

3. What is the due date for filing Form GSTR-1A?

There is no due date for filing of GSTR-1A. It can be filled till the filing of GSTR-3B of the same tax period.

4. Can I file Form GSTR 1A after filing Form GSTR 3B?

No, taxpayer cannot file GSTR-1A once GSTR-3B is filed for the same tax period. However, the functionality of amending records reported in previously filed GSTR-1 in subsequent GSTR 1 will be continued as it is.

5. Is it compulsory to file Form GSTR 1A?

No, GSTR 1A is optional. Taxpayer can file GSTR-1A in following scenario:
a. To add new records which taxpayer missed out while filing in form GSTR-1, and/or
b. To amend records which were already reported in same period in form GSTR-1.

6. What are the available modes of preparing Form GSTR-1A?

GSTR 1A can be filed only through online mode and through GSP.

7. Can Nil Form GSTR-1A be filed?

No, filing of Nil GSTR 1A is not available.

8. Can I amend the records reported in earlier GSTR 1 in current GSTR-1A?

No, GSTR 1A allows to amend the records filed in the GSTR 1 of current tax period only. The records reported in earlier GSTR 1, can be amended in any subsequent GSTR 1 subject to the time limit specified in the law.

9. Can I file Form GSTR 3B if I save some records in Form GSTR-1A but did not file Form GSTR1A?

In case a taxpayer saved any record in Form GSTR-1A but did not file the same before filing the GSTR-3B then he would face error at the time of filing of GSTR 3B, system will not allow to file GSTR 3B. Therefore, he would require to either delete the saved record in GSTR 1A or reset Form
GSTR 1A or file GSTR 1A before filing GSTR 3B. 

10. Can I add the details of a Debit Note / Credit Note in Form GSTR-1A?

Yes. A debit note / credit note can be added in the corresponding tables of GSTR 1A.

11. Can Recipient’s GSTIN be amended in GSTR-1A?

No, GSTIN of the recipient cannot be amended through GSTR1A. Same can be done only through GSTR 1 of the following tax periods.

12. I have opted for Quarterly filing of Form GSTR-1. Can I add or amend details of any record?

Yes. Any record furnished for the month of M1 or M2 through IFF can be amended in GSTR 1A of the same tax period which will be available to the taxpayer after filling of GSTR 1 for the quarter.

13. Can the filed GSTR 1A amended again if the GSTR 3B is not filed?

GSTR 1A can be filed only once for a particular tax period even if GSTR 3B is not filed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[22] Communication between Recipient and Supplier Taxpayers - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_communication.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Communication Between Taxpayers

“Communication between Taxpayers” functionality facilitates taxpayer to communicate with counterparty

 and request for an action on the document reported/ uploaded by him/her or by counterparty through GST Portal.

To utilize this facility:

Taxpayer needs to log into the GST portal and navigate to Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers option.
Taxpayer can perform the following tasks:
Taxpayer can send new notification to a Supplier or a Recipient.
Taxpayer can send return filling reminder to his/her supplier (not to Recipient)
Taxpayer can read and reply to the notifications received.
Taxpayer can directly upload the GSTR 1 document if not submitted and filed already.
Taxpayer can view notifications sent and reply received for the sent notifications.
An Email and SMS intimation will be sent to counterparty on registered email address and mobile number.
Taxpayer will get an alert for the unread notifications, if any.

 

To communicate with a Supplier or a Recipient, perform the following steps:

Note: Communication Between Taxpayers option is not available to persons registered as TDS, TCS and NRTP. Such registered persons have not been provided the link – ‘Communication Between Taxpayers’ under the Services tab.

 

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the portal with valid credentials. Dashboard page is displayed. Click Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers option.

 

 

2. COMMUNICATION BETWEEN TAXPAYERS page is displayed. From here, you can click any of the four tabs provided at the left-hand side of the page.

a. Inbox (Notification & Reply Received): It shows any new notification received or reply received from a Supplier or a Recipient. A supplier or a Recipient can then take an action on the received notification.

b. + Compose: It allows you to write and send a new notification to a Supplier or a Recipient.

c. Outbox (Notification & Reply Sent): It shows any new notification sent or reply sent to a Supplier or a Recipient.

d. Download CSV Template: It allows you to download CSV template through which you can upload the notifications at one go. (This functionality will be released shortly).

 

 

3.1 Send and View Notification to a Supplier or a Recipient

3.2 View Reply in Inbox and Take Action for Notification received from a Supplier or a Recipient

3.3 Upload the missing document directly to Form GSTR-1

3.4 View Reply received from a Supplier or a Recipient for the Notification sent

 

Click the hyperlink above to know more about them.

3.1 Send and View notification sent to a Supplier or a Recipient

 If a taxpayer needs to send a new notification to a Supplier or a Recipient, he/she can use the Compose option for this.

 

3.1.1. Click the +Compose tab to send a new notification to a Supplier or a Recipient.

 

 

3.1.2 Send New Notification page is displayed. From the Notification To drop-down list, select the Supplier option in case you want to send notification to a Supplier else select the Recipient option in the Notification To drop-down list.

 

 

3.1.3 In the Supplier GSTIN field, enter the GSTIN of the supplier to whom notification has to be sent. Once the GSTIN is entered, Trade/Legal Name field will be auto populated with details.

 

 

3.1.4 In the Subject field, enter the subject of the notification you want to send.

Note: Maximum length of the subject can be up to 50 characters.

 

 

3.1.5 Click the REMINDER FOR FILING option to send a reminder to the Supplier.

Note:

This functionality is optional. You can send a notification without adding a reminder as well.

This functionality is applicable if the notification is being sent to a Supplier by a Recipient. It is not available if the notification is being sent to a Recipient by a Supplier.

 

 

3.1.6 In the Financial Year, Return Period and Form Type drop-down, select the required data.

Note: Options available in drop-down list in Form Type are GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B.

 

 

3.1.7 Click the Plus icon under Add Record field to add the details.

 

 

 

 

3.1.7 (a) Adding document details Manually:

3.1.7 (b) Adding document details through CSV template:

 

3.1.7 (a) Adding document details Manually:

 

3.1.7 (a1) In the Document Details section, select the Action Required by a Supplier or a Recipient from the drop-down list and enter the required details manually.

 

 

 

 

 

 Note 1: Description of the options available in drop-down list is given below.

File Missing Document – Taxpayer (Recipient) informs the Supplier to upload the missing documents
Rejected-Amendment Required – Taxpayer (Recipient) informs counterparty to amend the document (Invoice, Credit note, Debit note)
Rejected-Wrongly sent to me – Taxpayer (Recipient) informs the counterparty that supply mentioned in the document is wrongly sent to him/her.
Re-Uploaded document – Taxpayer (Recipient) wants the Supplier to delete or re-upload the uploaded document.  
Payment made – Taxpayer (Recipient) informs the Supplier that payment has been made against the document.
Others – Any other information as given in Remarks section.

 

Note 2:

• This functionality works item-level wise. For each document (Invoice/Credit Note/Debit Note), you need to add option from the Action Required field.

• Fifty documents/records can be manually added or through CSV template for a particular notification. To add more than 50 documents/records, initiate a new notification.

A taxpayer can manually modify the notification by deleting some of the records and adding new records at their place. A taxpayer can do these modifications before sending the notification to counterparty. No such modifications can be done once the notification has been sent to counterparty.

• Drop-down values of Action Required field will be different for Supplier and Recipient. In case the notification is sent to a Recipient by a supplier, Drop-down values in Action Required field for a Recipient will be as shown in the screenshot below:

 

 

 

Note 3: Description of the options available in drop-down list is given below for a Recipient taxpayer

Payment not received- Taxpayer (Supplier) informs the counterparty that payment has not been received yet.
Others – Any other information as detailed in Remarks section.

 

 

3.1.7 (a2) Click the Plus icon under Add Item field to add the document details.

 

 

3.1.7 (a3) Save button will be displayed.

 

 

 

3.1.7 (a4) Select the required rate option from the Rate drop-down list and enter the Taxable Value. Tax amount will be system calculated based on Rate and Taxable Value provided.

Note: Multiple rows can be added in Rate table for one particular invoice.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.1.7 (a5) Click the SAVE Button to save the details. The details will be saved under Added Document Details sections.

Note: You can click the Edit/Delete button to Edit or Delete the added details in Added Document Details section. On click of Edit button, you can add or delete the added Rate details. You can also click the Arrow button to view the Rate details.

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.1.7 (b) Adding document details through CSV template:

 

3.1.7 (b1) Click the Download CSV Template tab.

 

 

 

3.1.7 (b2) The CSV Template is downloaded in excel format. Open the downloaded template.

 

 

3.1.7 (b3) Save the excel sheet on your local machine and enter the details. Once you have entered the details, save the file.

 

 

Note: The values entered should be same as given in the UI.

 

Note: Date format while importing CSV file: The taxpayer has to use valid date format in the CSV file. The expected date format is DD/MM/YYYY. Any other format used in CSV file will be shown as invalid format. Such records will be added to Error document table and can be corrected by the taxpayer online.

Precision for Taxable value more than 12 digits in CSV file: When CSV is saved with large numbers using MS excel, it does not hold precision since formatting is not saved. When the same file is re-opened, the precision is lost in CSV file itself even before importing. So, while importing, taxpayer will have to format such columns as Text instead of scientific/general formatting which is taken by default. However, the formatting will be lost again if the file is re-opened. This is the limitation with CSV files.

 

3.1.7 (b4). Click the Upload CSV button to upload the excel sheet.

 

 

 

 

3.1.7 (b5) A warning message “Do you want to upload the csv file?” will appear on the screen. Click the YES button to proceed.

 

 

3.1.7 (b6) A success message “CSV file uploaded successfully” will appear on the screen. Click the OK button.

Note: Fifty documents/records can be added in excel sheet of CSV template for a particular notification. To add more than 50 documents, initiate a new notification or you can manually delete some of the records and add new records at their place. A taxpayer can do these modifications before sending the notification to counterparty. No such modifications can be done once the notification has been sent to counterparty.

 

 

3.1.8 In the Recipient Remarks section, enter the remarks for the supplier.

Note: Maximum length of the Recipient Remarks can be 200 characters.

 

 

 

3.1.9 Click the Upload Attachment button to attach the file.

Note: Up to four files in JPEG or PDF format with maximum file size of 5 MB can be uploaded as supporting documents.

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.1.10 Click the RESET button to change any value, otherwise Click the SEND button.

 

 

3.1.11 A Success message “Your notification has been successfully sent to counterparty” is displayed. Click the OK button.

Note: On successful receipt of a new notification/reply, SMS and Email will be sent to receiver. Also, an alert will be given to receiver on the GST portal.

 

 

3.1.12 To see whether the notification has been sent to supplier, click the Outbox (Notification & Reply Sent) tab. Select the TO RECIPIENT or TO SUPPLIER tab to view the notifications. List of notifications will be displayed showing the latest notification on the top.

 

 

3.1.13 Click the View link from the View Notification section to see the details of that notification.

 

 

3.1.14 Click the BACK button to go back to main screen.

 

 

 

3.2 View Reply in Inbox and Take Action on Notification received from a Supplier or a Recipient

Once the notification is sent to a Supplier or a Recipient, the taxpayer receiving the notification can view and reply to the received notification as per steps given below:

3.2.1 Login to the GST portal and navigate to Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers option.

 

 

 

3.2.2 Click the Inbox (Notification & Reply Received) tab to see the new notification received.

Note: A bell icon will be displaying the number of new notifications received.

 

 

3.2.3 Under the Notification Received section, select whether you want to see the notification from a Supplier or a Recipient and select the tab accordingly. All the notifications will be displayed with latest notification appearing in bold on the top.

 

 

Note: You can search any record in any page of Inbox/Outbox using Search option as well. You can add any key/value from the given options: Recipient GSTIN, Trade/Legal Name, Subject, Notification Number. GST portal will search the same key/value from all the pages in the Recipient GSTIN, Trade/Legal Name, Subject, Notification Number columns and show the matching record on the screen. Any record that you are searching

will be searched across all the pages and not only on the current page.

 

 

 

Note: If you will remove the key/value (searched content) from the Search box, GST portal will navigate back to the first page of Inbox/Outbox and display all the records.

 

 

3.2.4 Click the View link from the View Notification field to see the details of a particular notification.

 

 

 

 

Note 1: Click the Download Notification button to download and see the CSV excel sheet shared by counterparty.

Note 2: Click the Download Attachment button to download and see the attachment shared by the counterparty.

 

 

3.2.5 Click the REPLY/TAKE ACTION button to reply the notification.

Note: For one notification, reply can be sent only once.

 

 

3.2.6 In the Document Details section, select the Action Taken by a Supplier or a Recipient from the drop-down list and enter the required details.

 

 

Note: Move the Scroll Bar to right to view the required option.

 

 

Note 1: Description of the options available in drop-down list under Action Taken column is as given below.

 

Missing Document-Filed – Taxpayer (Supplier) informs the Recipient that the missing document is now filed.
Missing Document Uploaded – Taxpayer (Supplier) informs the Recipient that the missing document has been uploaded.
Document does not belong to me – Taxpayer (Supplier) informs the Recipient that this document does not belong to him/her.

 

3.2.7 In the Supplier Remarks section, enter the remarks for a Supplier or a Recipient.

Note: Maximum length of the Supplier Remarks can be up to 200 characters.

 

 

Note: Click the Upload Attachment button to upload the attachment to be shared to the counterparty.

Up to four files in JPEG or PDF format with maximum file size of 5 MB can be uploaded as supporting documents.

 

 

 

 

3.2.8 Click the SEND button.

 

 

3.2.9 A Success message “Reply has been successfully sent” is displayed. On successful receipt of a new notification/reply, SMS and Email will be sent to receiver. Also, an alert will be given to receiver on the GST portal.

 

Note: Notification will now disappear from the Notification Received section. It will now be displayed in Reply Sent section.

 

 

3.2.10 To see whether the reply is being sent to recipient, click the Outbox (Notification & Reply Sent) tab. Select the TO RECIPIENT/ TO SUPPLIER tab. List of notifications will be displayed showing the latest notification on the top.

Note: You can search any record in any page of Inbox/Outbox using Search option as well. You can add any key/value from the given options: Recipient GSTIN, Trade/Legal Name, Subject, Notification Number. GST portal will search the same key/value from all the pages in the Recipient GSTIN, Trade/Legal Name, Subject, Notification Number columns and show the matching record on the screen. Any record that you are searching

will be searched across all the pages and not only on the current page.

 

If you will remove the key/value (searched content) from the Search box, GST portal will navigate back to the first page of Inbox/Outbox and display all the records.

 

 

 

3.2.11 Click the View link from the View Reply field to see the details of the reply sent for the notification.

 

 

3.2.12 Click the BACK button to go back to main screen.

 

 

 

 

3.3 Upload the missing document directly to Form GSTR-1

In case, supplier wants to upload the missing document directly to Form GSTR-1, perform the following steps:

 

3.3.1 Select the check box under the Upload to GSTR-1 field. Select the Action Taken by supplier from the drop-down list and enter the required details. Supplier can only upload documents which are not filed in Form GSTR-1. Enter the remarks in Supplier Remarks section. (Note: Maximum length of the Recipient Remarks can be 200 characters.) Click the UPLOAD TO GSTR1 button.

 

Note: Document will be available in editable form in Form GSTR-1 and it will be uploaded in nearest open period. Example: If a document dated 12/01/2020 was supposed to be declared in January GSTR1 but the return of January 2021 has already been filed, then in this case document will be uploaded in nearest open period ie February 2021.

 

For uploading document in the Form GSTR-1, there can be following three scenarios.

 

Scenario 1: Document is already submitted and filed in Form GSTR-1 by the supplier of a particular tax period: If supplier tries to upload same document again from the communication channel using “Upload to GSTR-1” option then GST Portal will search the document in the last two financial years, whether record is available in Form GSTR-1 or not, based on the ‘Document Number’ and ‘Document Date’ details. If document already exists and Form GSTR-1 has been filed by the supplier, then GST Portal will show a message ‘It is already filed’ and ‘Upload to GSTR-1’ option will be disabled.

Here, two financial years mean period on or after ‘Document Date’ ie If document date is 19 June 2020, the GST Portal will search records for FY 2019-20 and 2020-21.

 

Scenario 2: Document is saved but not submitted/filed in Form GSTR-1 by the supplier of a particular tax period: If the supplier tries to upload it from the communication channel using “Upload to GSTR-1” option, GST Portal will allow its upload and the document will overwrite the available document and stay in saved state and this new details will be uploaded while filing Form GSTR-1 by the supplier.

 

Scenario 3: Document is neither saved nor filed/submitted in Form GSTR-1 of a particular tax period: If the supplier tries to upload it from the communication channel using “Upload to GSTR-1” option, GST Portal will allow its upload.

 

 

 

 

3.3.2 A Success message “Document(s) upload request is successful. Please check the status of upload by navigating to the GSTR-1 period mentioned for the document” is displayed. Click the OK button.

 

 

 

Note: Facility of direct upload of documents to Form GSTR-1 is available only in cases in which notifications is received from recipient. The facility to directly upload (missing) documents to Form GSTR-1 is already available to Supplier. Supplier can only upload documents with action required as ‘File Missing Document’ using this functionality.

 

The missing document will be uploaded in Form GSTR-1, if its status is ‘Not Filed’. If Form GSTR-1 for a particular month is filed, then the document will be uploaded to the nearest/next open Form GSTR-1. Thus the missing document is uploaded into nearest open period.

For Example: A document from the month of November 2020 is missed, while filing Form GSTR-1 in GST Portal and reported by a recipient through a notification to the supplier. When the supplier (who is a monthly return filer) tries to directly upload the documents to Form GSTR-1, the system will allow him/her to upload the document to November 2020, if the Form GSTR 1 is in saved stage for November 2020 return period. However, in the event, where the taxpayer has filed his/her GSTR-1 for the month of November 2020, then December 2020 becomes the nearest open period and the system will allow him/her to upload the document to December 2020. If December is also filed, it moves to January 2021 and so on.

 

3.4 View Reply received from a Supplier or a Recipient for the Notification sent

Once the reply of notification is sent to a Supplier or a Recipient, they can see the reply received for the notification as mentioned in steps below:

3.4.1 Login to the GST portal and navigate to Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers option.

 

 

 

3.4.2 Click the Inbox (Notification & Reply Received) tab to see the reply received for the notification sent.

Note: A bell icon will be displaying the number of new notifications/replies received.

 

 

 

3.4.3 Under the Reply Received section, in the FROM RECIPIENT/FROM SUPPLIER tab, all the notifications will be displayed with latest notification appearing in bold on the top.

 

Note: You can search any record in any page of Inbox/Outbox using Search option as well. You can add any key/value from the given options: Recipient GSTIN, Trade/Legal Name, Subject, Notification Number. GST portal will search the same key/value from all the pages in the Recipient GSTIN, Trade/Legal Name, Subject, Notification Number columns and show the matching record on the screen. Any record that you are searching

will be searched across all the pages and not only on the current page.

 

If you will remove the key/value (searched content) from the Search box, GST portal will navigate back to the first page of Inbox/Outbox and display all the records.

 

 

 

3.4.4 Click the View link from the View Reply Received field to see the details of reply sent by counterparty for the notification.

 

 

 

3.4.5 Click the BACK button to go back to main screen.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[23] Communication between Recipient and Supplier Taxpayers - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_communication.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQ > Communication Between Taxpayers
1. What is “Communication between Taxpayers” functionality?

“Communication between Taxpayers” functionality facilitates taxpayer to communicate with counterparty

and request for an action on the document reported/ uploaded by him/her or by counterparty through GST Portal.

To utilize this facility:

a. Taxpayer needs to log into the GST portal and navigate to Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers option.

b. Taxpayer can perform the following tasks:

• Taxpayer can send new notification to a Supplier or a Recipient.

• Taxpayer can send return filling reminder to his/her supplier (not to Recipient).

• Taxpayer can read and reply to the notifications received.

• Taxpayer can directly upload the GSTR 1 document if not submitted and filed already.

• Taxpayer can view notifications sent and reply received for the sent notifications.

c. An Email and SMS intimation will be sent to counterparty on registered email address and mobile number.

d. Taxpayer will get an alert for the unread notifications, if any.

2. Which type of taxpayers are eligible to use “Communication Between Taxpayers” facility?

All registered persons, except those registered as TDS, TCS and NRTP, have been provided access to Communication Between Taxpayers facility. These registered persons (except those registered as TDS, TCS and NRTP) have been provided the link - Communication Between Taxpayers under the Services tab on their dashboard.

3. To whom the notification can be sent by a taxpayer using “Communication Between Taxpayers” facility?

A taxpayer can send the notifications to their Suppliers as well as to their Recipients.

Send Notification to Other Taxpayer
4. Can I send a notification to other taxpayer from GST Portal?

Yes, you can send notification to other taxpayer (a Recipient or a Supplier) from GST Portal. Navigate to Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers > Compose option, which will facilitate in sending notifications to another taxpayer.

5. Will any intimation be sent to other taxpayer once a notification is sent?

Yes, the counterparty taxpayer will receive an e-mail on his/her registered e-mail address and an SMS will also be triggered to his/her registered mobile number for all the notifications received. Also, an alert will be shared on GST portal at Dashboard > Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers > Inbox (Notification & Reply Received) option  

6. What is the maximum number of notifications which can be sent to same GSTIN (counterparty) by a taxpayer?

A taxpayer is not allowed to send more than 100 notifications if he/she is sending notification to same GSTIN (counterparty). In case of the monthly return filers, the taxpayer is allowed to send 100 notifications to a particular counterparty for that month. In case of the quarterly return filers, the taxpayer will be able to send out 100 notifications to a particular counterparty for that quarter.

Example for monthly filing users: For the month of October 2020, a monthly user is allowed to send a total of 100 notifications to a particular counterparty. However, when November 2020 starts, the counter is reset to 0, and he/she can again send 100 notifications to the same counterparty for November 2020 and similarly for the next months.

Example for quarterly filing users: For the month of October-November-December 2020, a quarterly user is allowed to send a total of 100 notifications to a particular counterparty. However, when January 2021 starts, the counter is reset to 0, and he/she can again send 100 notifications to the same counterparty for next quarter January-February-March 2021 and similarly for the next quarters.

Note: Tax period is same as the return period.

 View Notification Sent to Other Taxpayer
7. Can I view the notification sent by me to other taxpayer from GST Portal?

Yes, you can view the notification sent to a Recipient or a Supplier from GST Portal. Navigate to Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers > Outbox (Notification & Reply Sent) option, to view notifications sent to other taxpayers.

View & Reply to Notification received from Other Taxpayer
8. Can I view notifications issued by a Recipient or a Supplier at the GST Portal?

Yes, you can view notifications issued by a Recipient or a Supplier at the GST Portal. Navigate to Dashboard > Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers > Inbox (Notification & Reply Received) option to view the notifications issued by a Recipient or a Supplier at the GST Portal.

9. Can I reply to notifications issued by a Recipient or a Supplier at the GST Portal?

Yes, you can reply to notifications issued by a Recipient or a Supplier at the GST Portal. Navigate to Dashboard > Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers > Inbox (Notification & Reply Received) option to View and Reply/Take Action on the notifications received from a Recipient or a Supplier at the GST Portal.

10. Can I view the reply received against notification sent to a Recipient or a Supplier at the GST Portal?

Yes, you can view reply against a notification sent to a Recipient or a Supplier at the GST Portal. Navigate to Dashboard > Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers > Outbox (Notification & Reply Sent) option to view the reply sent to a Recipient or a Supplier at the GST Portal.

11. Can I upload any attachment while sending reply of the notification?

Yes, you can upload attachment while sending reply of the notification. Up to four files in JPEG or PDF format with maximum file size of 5 MB can be uploaded as supporting documents.

Upload details of missing documents
12. Can I upload details of missing documents into Form GSTR 1 directly on GST Portal?

Yes, Recipient can send details of missing documents like Invoice, Debit Note, Credit Note (not submitted and filed by supplier in their Form GSTR-1) to the Supplier using this facility (either manually entering the data or using a CSV template). Supplier will have an option to upload such documents directly in Form GSTR-1 of the nearest open period, using this functionality.

Example: Recipient can add a missing document for previous financial years as well. For Feb 2021, recipient can upload missing document for FY 2019-20 and 2020-2021. But they cannot upload missing document for FY 2018-19.

 

For uploading document in the Form GSTR-1, there can be following three scenarios.

 

Scenario 1: Document is already submitted and filed in Form GSTR-1 by the supplier of a particular tax period: If supplier tries to upload same document again from the communication channel using “Upload to GSTR-1” option then GST Portal will search the document in the last two financial years, whether record is available in Form GSTR-1 or not, based on the ‘Document Number’ and ‘Document Date’ details. If document already exists and Form GSTR-1 has been filed by the supplier, then GST Portal will show a message ‘It is already filed’ and ‘Upload to GSTR-1’ option will be disabled.

Here, two financial years mean period on or after ‘Document Date’ ie If document date is 19 June 2020, the GST Portal will search records for FY 2019-20 and 2020-21.

 

Scenario 2: Document is saved but not submitted/filed in Form GSTR-1 by the supplier of a particular tax period: If the supplier tries to upload it from the communication channel using “Upload to GSTR-1” option, GST Portal will allow its upload and the document will overwrite the available document and stay in saved state and this new details will be uploaded while filing Form GSTR-1 by the supplier.

 

Scenario 3: Document is neither saved nor filed/submitted in Form GSTR-1 of a particular tax period: If the supplier tries to upload it from the communication channel using “Upload to GSTR-1” option, GST Portal will allow its upload.

13. Can I upload and download the documents in CSV format while sending notifications?

Yes, you can upload and download the documents in CSV template while sending notifications as well as manually. Fifty documents/records can be added in excel sheet of CSV template for a particular notification. If you need to send more than fifty documents/records, initiate a new notification.

14. How many documents/records can be manually added through UI or screen for a particular notification?

Fifty documents/records can be manually added through UI or screen in a particular notification. If you need to send more than fifty documents/records, you need to initiate a new notification.

15. Can I upload any attachment while sending notification?

Yes, you can upload attachment while sending notification. Up to four files in JPEG or PDF format, with maximum file size of 5 MB each, can be uploaded as supporting documents.

Intimation of the notification
16. Is an alert given on GST portal to a recipient of a notification/reply received?

Yes, an alert will be given to the taxpayer who is receiving the notification on logging to the GST portal, if there are any new notifications or any replies received.

However, sender can see the notification sent in his/her Outbox by navigating to Dashboard > Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers > Outbox (Notification & Reply Sent) option.

17. Is an email or SMS alert received by a Recipient or a Supplier when a notification is sent by counterparty?

Yes, the receiver will receive an e-mail on his/her registered e-mail and an SMS will also be triggered to his/her registered mobile number on receiving the notification. However, sender can see the notification sent in his/her Outbox by navigating to Dashboard > Services > User Services > Communication Between Taxpayers > Outbox (Notification & Reply Sent) option.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[24] Unblocking of EWB Generation - Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_ewaybill.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Unblocking of E-Way Bill Generation Facility
How can I file application for Unblocking of E-Way Bill Generation Facility?

To file application for Unblocking of E-Way Bill Generation Facility on GST Portal, perform following steps:

 

A. File application for Unblocking of E-Way Bill Generation Facility

B. Open the Application's Case Details screen by searching for your filed Application in My Applications page or from View Additional Notices/Orders page

C. View your Filed Application

D. View issued Notice related to that Application and File your Reply

E. View issued Orders related to that Application

 

Click each hyperlink above to know more.

A. File Application for Unblocking of E-Way Bill Generation Facility

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the portal with valid credentials. Dashboard page is displayed. Click Services > User Services > My Applications option.

 

 

 

2. The My Applications page is displayed. Select Application for unblocking of E-way bill in the Application Type field. Click the NEW APPLICATION button.

 

 

3. The Application for unblocking of E-way bill page is displayed.

 

 

4. Select the Expected date for filing of returns of the default periods using the calendar.

5. Select theReason of Unblocking by Taxpayer from the drop-down list.

Note: If Other reasons is selected as the Reason of Unblocking, specify the reason in the box provided next to it.

 

 

6. Click Choose File to upload the document(s) related to this application.

Note:

Only PDF or JPEG file format is allowed for upload.
Maximum file size for upload is 1MB.
Maximum 4 supporting documents can be attached.

 

7. Select the Verification check-box and Name of the Authorized Signatory from the drop-down list. Enter the name of the Place where you are filing this application. Click the PROCEED button application.

 

 

8. Click the PROCEED button.

 

 

9. The Submit Application page is displayed. Click SUBMIT WITH DSC or SUBMIT WITH EVC.

 

 

10 (a) SUBMIT WITH DSC: Click the PROCEED button and Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

10 (b) SUBMIT WITH EVC: Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VALIDATE OTP button.

 

 

11. The Acknowledgement page is displayed with the generated ARN. You will also receive an SMS and email on your registered mobile number & e-mail id respectively, intimating you of the generated ARN and successful filing of the application.

Note: Once the application is filed, status of the application gets updated to "Pending with Tax Officer".

11.1 To download the filed application, click the DOWNLOAD button.

 

 

11.2. The filed application is displayed in PDF format.

 

 

Go back to the Main Menu

C. Take action using APPLICATIONS tab of Case Details screen: View your Filed Application

To view details of unblocking application filed perform following steps:

 

12. Navigate to Services > User Services > View Additional Notices/Orders option.

 

 

12.1. Click View.

 

 

13. On the Case Details page of that particular application, select the APPLICATIONS tab, if it is not selected by default. This tab provides you an option to view the filed application in PDF format. Click the DOWNLOAD APPLICATION button to download and view the application in PDF mode.

 

.

 

 

 

13.1. The file application is displayed in PDF format.

 

 

Go back to the Main Menu

D. Take action using NOTICES tab of Case Details screen: View issued Notice related to that Application and File your Reply

To view Notices issued by tax official to you related to your application and to file your Reply to it, perform following steps:

 

14. On the Case Details page of that particular application, select the NOTICES tab. This tab displays all the notices issued by Tax Official. Click the Notice Type to download the personal hearing notice in PDF format.

 

 

14.1. The personal hearing notice is displayed in PDF format.

 

 

 

Note: The Download Attachment column shows the link to view or download the supporting documents attached by Tax Official, if any, while issuance of the said notice.

15. To reply to the issued Notice, click the Reply hyperlink.

 

 

16. The Notice Reference Number, Notice Issued Date, Notice Type and Replay Date fields are auto populated. In the Reply field, enter details of your reply to the issued notice. Click Choose File to upload the document(s) related to your reply. Select the Verification check box and select the Name of Authorized Signatory from the drop-down list. Click PROCEED.

Note:

Only PDF or JPEG file format is allowed.

Maximum file size for upload is 1MB.

Maximum 4 supporting documents can be attached.

 

 

17. Click the PROCEED button.

 

 

18. TheSubmit Application page is displayed. Click FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC.

 

 

18. (a) FILE WITH DSC: Click the PROCEED button. Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

18. (b) FILE WITH EVC: Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VALIDATE OTP button.

 

 

19. A confirmation message is displayed that reply has been filed successfully. Click OK.

 

 

20. The updated REPLIES tab is displayed, with the record of the filed reply in a table and with the Status updated to "Reply to Personal Hearing Filed". You can also click the documents in the Reply Filed section of the table to download them.

 

 

Go back to the Main Menu

E. Take action using ORDERS tab of Case Details screen: View issued Orders related to that Application

To download order issued by tax official regarding acceptance or rejection of Unblocking of E-Way Bill Generation Facility, perform following steps:

 

1. On the Case Details page of that particular taxpayer, click the ORDERS tab. This tab provides you an option to view the issued order, in PDF mode. Click the order in the Order Type section of the table to download them in PDF format.

 

 

21.1 The PDF is displayed as shown below.

 

 

Note:  Unblocking of an E-Way Bill generation facility is valid upto the period indicated by the Tax Official in his/her order.

 

Post the expiry of the validity period, the taxpayer will continue to be unblocked in the E-way bill system for generation of EWB, if the taxpayer is not in the defaulter list, after expiry of validity period.

 

Post the expiry of the validity period, the taxpayer will be automatically blocked in the E-way bill system, if the taxpayer is still in the defaulter list, after expiry of validity period. This will happen if taxpayer fails to file Form GSTR-3B return / Statement in FORM CMP-08 for last two or more consecutive tax periods, after expiry of validity period.

Go back to the Main Menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[25] Unblocking of EWB Generation - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_unblockingewaybill.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Unblocking of E-Way Bill Generation Facility
Overview
1. Why my GSTIN is blocked for E-Way Bill generation facility?

Your GSTIN will be blocked for E-Way Bill generation facility in case, you have failed to file Form GSTR-3B return / Statement in FORM CMP-08, for last two or more consecutive tax periods.

2. How can my E-Way Bill generation facility be unblocked?

Your E-Way Bill generation facility would be automatically unblocked on the EWB Portal, if you file your GSTR-3B Return / Statement in FORM CMP-08 and the default in Return filing is reduced to less than two tax periods. You may also file online request for unblocking of E-Way Bill generation facility, in Form GST EWB 05, to your jurisdictional tax official.

3. How can I submit application for unblocking of E-Way Bill generation facility and what is the process followed once the application is submitted?

You can submit application for unblocking of an E-Way Bill generation facility through an online request, citing the grounds, why your facility may be un-blocked along with the supporting documents, if any, to your Jurisdictional Tax Official.

 

The steps below explain the complete process that is being followed, after the application for unblocking of E-Way Bill generation is submitted.

Your GSTIN will get blocked for E-Way Bill generation facility in case, you have failed to file Form GSTR-3B return / Statement in FORM CMP-08, for last two or more consecutive tax periods.

Thereafter taxpayer may submit the application for unblocking of E-way Bill generation facility along with the supporting documents to the Jurisdictional Tax Official.

The Tax official receives the application for unblocking of E-Way bill generation and issues a Personal Hearing notice against the application.

The taxpayer can view the Personal Hearing Notice issued by the Tax official. The taxpayer can file a reply, attach required documents, and submit it either using DSC or EVC.

The Tax official then issues order against the application considering the supported documents attached by the taxpayer. The tax official can issue either accept or reject order against the application.

In case the Tax officer issues Order of Acceptance for unblocking application, the facility to generate E-way bill against that particular GSTIN will get unblocked, upto the validity period given in the order.

In case the Tax officer issues Order of Rejection for unblocking application, the facility to generate E-way bill against that particular GSTIN will remain blocked and will be treated as closed status for that ARN.

Note: The tax official cannot reject an application without issuing Persona Hearing Notice against the application submitted.

The taxpayer can view the orders issued by the tax official in the ORDERS tab of Case Details page. Also, system would send the intimation to the Taxpayer via email and SMS.

Viewing Orders of Unblocking of EWB Generation
4. Where can I view the status of order issued by Tax Official on my application for Unblocking of E-Way Bill generation facility?

In case, the order for rejection/acceptance of the unblocking request made by the taxpayer is issued by the Tax Official, Email and SMS of acceptance/ rejection of order will be sent to you on your registered email id and mobile number. Such orders can be seen by you after login to the GST Portal.

Navigate to Dashboard > Services > User Services > View Additional Notices/Orders to view Acceptance/Rejection Order for unblocking of the E-Way Bill generation facility.

 

Click here to know more about viewing orders issued by the Tax Official.

5. What are the steps to view Acceptance/Rejection Order for unblocking of the E-Way Bill generation facility?

Navigate to Dashboard > Services > User Services > View Additional Notices/Orders to view Acceptance/Rejection Order for unblocking of the E-Way Bill generation facility. Also, intimation of acceptance/ rejection order will be sent to you on the registered email id and mobile number.

 

Click here to know more about viewing orders issued by the Tax Official.

6. What is the duration for which unblocking of an E-Way Bill generation facility is valid?

Unblocking of an E-Way Bill generation facility is valid upto the period indicated by the Tax Official in his/her order.

 

Post the expiry of the validity period, the taxpayer will continue to be unblocked in the E-way bill system for generation of EWB, if the taxpayer is not in the defaulter list, after expiry of validity period.

 

Post the expiry of the validity period, the taxpayer will be automatically blocked in the E-way bill system, if the taxpayer is still in the defaulter list, after expiry of validity period. This will happen if taxpayer fails to file Form GSTR-3B return / Statement in FORM CMP-08 for last two or more consecutive tax periods, after expiry of validity period.

Notification to Taxpayer
7. How will I get to know if my E-Way Bill generation facility has been blocked?

An SMS/ Email is sent at the registered mobile number/ email id of the taxpayer whose E-Way Bill generation facility has been blocked. Also, during such period, you or any other user, including a Transporter, will not be able to generate E Way Bill against your GSTIN, either as consignor or consignee.

Note: Every time there is a change in the status regarding unblocking of E-way billing system, an SMS and email is sent directly to the taxpayer.

8. How will I be notified of any action taken by Tax Official on my application for unblocking of E-Way Bill generation facility?

After the Tax Official issues a notice for personal hearing / online Order in respect of your request for unblocking of the E-Way Bill generation facility, the copy of the said notice/order is made available on your dashboard. Also, an Email and SMS will be sent to your registered email id and mobile number. You will also be able to reply and upload supporting documents online in reply to a notice. To view notice/order navigating Services > User Services >View Additional Notices/Orders option.

9. Will I receive any reminder before the expiry of my validity period as indicated in unblocking order?

Yes, the GST Portal will send a reminder mail and an SMS before the expiry of validity period as indicated in unblocking order, prompting you to file returns within time to avoid blocking of E-Way Bill generation facility again. This mail is sent 7 days before the date of expiry of validity period.

10. E-Way bill generation facility was blocked for me, for which I raised an application and then it was unblocked. But now the facility is again blocked. Why my unblocked E-Way Bill generation facility has been blocked again?

This automatic blocking may happen if the validity period as given by Tax Official has expired and you have failed to file Form GSTR-3B return / Statement in FORM CMP-08 for last two or more consecutive tax periods (i.e. if the taxpayer is still in the defaulter list after expiry of validity period).

11. Is it possible to block my E-Way Bill generation facility before the expiry of the validity period?

No, E-Way Bill generation facility will not be blocked before the expiry of the validity period, as given by the tax official. However, E-Way Bill System will automatically 'Block' the Taxpayer post the expiry of the validity period. This automatic blocking will be done, if the extended period as given by Tax Official has expired and taxpayer has failed to file Form GSTR-3B return / Statement in FORM CMP-08 for more than two consecutive tax periods.

Application Statuses
12. What are the various Application statuses while issuing an order of acceptance/rejection for unblocking of E-Way Bill generation facility?

Listed below are the various Application statuses while issuing an order of acceptance/rejection for unblocking of E-Way Bill generation facility:

Order Generation Enqueue - When Order generation is pending with Tax Official

Order of Acceptance Issued - When Order is generated by Tax Official for acceptance of unblocking of E-Way Bill generation facility request of taxpayer

Order of Rejection Issued - When Order is generated by Tax Official for rejection of unblocking of E-Way Bill generation facility request of taxpayer.

Already Unblocked- Dropped – When the Tax Official submits the order of unblocking for a Taxpayer and the status of the taxpayer was already unblocked at E-way bill System.

Pending with Tax Officer – When the application is pending with the Tax Official for decision.

Personal Hearing Notice Issued – When the Tax Official issues a personal hearing notice to the taxpayer.

Reply to Personal Hearing Filed – When the taxpayer files reply to the personal hearing notice.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[26] Viewing Form GSTR-2A - Details of Auto Drafted Inward Supplies for Normal Taxpayer - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=View_of_Inward_Supplies_Returns_1.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Form GSTR-2A > View of Inward Supplies Return
How can I view the Inward Supplies details in Form GSTR-2A?

Note:

1. Form GSTR-2A will be generated in below scenarios:

When the supplier uploads the B2B transaction details in their Form GSTR-1/1A/IFF/5
ISD details will be auto-populated on submission of Form GSTR-6 by their Input Service Distributor
TDS & TCS details will be auto-populated on filing of Form GSTR-7 & 8 respectively by the counter party.
Auto-population of Import of goods from overseas, on bill of entry, as received from ICEGATE Portal of Indian Customs.

2. Form GSTR-2A is a ‘Read only’ view form and you cannot take any action in Form GSTR-2A.

3. Form GSTR-2A will be generated in the following manner:

After saving/filing/submission of Form GSTR-1/1A/IFF by suppliers or when counterparty adds invoices / Credit notes / Debit Notes etc. or make Amendments in Form GSTR-1/5/1A/IFF.
Form GSTR-6 is submitted for distribution of credit in the form of ISD credit invoice or ISD credit notes.
Form GSTR-7 & 8 filed by the counterparty for TDS & TCS credit respectively.

 

To view the Inward Supplies details in Form GSTR-2A, perform the following steps:

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard option.

 

 

2. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Return Filing Period for which you want to view Form GSTR-2A from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button. GSTR2A tile is displayed.

 

3. Download GSTR-2A

4. View GSTR-2A

 

3. Download GSTR-2A

 

3.1. If number of invoices in Form GSTR-2A is more than 500, then you need to download the invoices by clicking the DOWNLOAD button.

 

 

3.2. Click the GENERATE JSON FILE TO DOWNLOAD or GENERATE EXCEL FILE TO DOWNLOAD button to generate data in the JSON or Excel format. The generated JSON file can be opened in Returns Offline Tool.

 

 

3.3. Once the file is generated, the link will appear to download. Download the JSON file by clicking the link.

 

 

Note:

a. Click the here hyperlink if the invoices are more than 500.  

 

 

b. A message will be displayed on the screen, click the OK button to proceed.

 

 

4. View GSTR-2A

 

4.1. In the Form GSTR-2A tile, click the VIEW tile to view the details directly on GST Portal.

 

 

4.2. The Form GSTR-2A – AUTO DRAFTED DETAILS page is displayed.

 

 

Note: January 2024 onwards new two tabs – ECO Documents and Amendment to ECO Documents will be displayed in GSTR-2A.

 

 

Click the tile names to know more details:

 

PART- A

B2B Invoices

Amendments to B2B INVOICES

Credit/Debit Notes

Amendments to Credit/Debit Notes 

ECO Documents

Amendment to ECO Documents

 

PART-B

 

ISD Credits

Amendments to ISD Credits

 

PART-C

 

TDS Credits

Amendments to TDS Credits

TCS Credits

 

PART-D

 

Import of goods from overseas on bill of entry

Import of goods from SEZ units / developers on bill of entry

 

Part A - 1. B2B Invoices

 

B2B invoices displays all the invoices added by the supplier through their Form GSTR-1/1A and/ or Form GSTR 5. The B2B section of PART-A of Form GSTR-2A is auto-populated on uploading or saving of invoices by the supplier in their respective returns - Form GSTR-1/1A and Form GSTR-5.

 

a. Click the B2B Invoices tile.

 

 

b. In supplier wise details, you can view invoices uploaded by the supplier. Click the Supplier GSTIN hyperlink to navigate to view B2B Invoice summary.

 

 

Note:

You can click DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download details of this table. You can download records upto 500 using this option.

You can use Display/Hide Columns option, to hide or show columns.

You can use Search feature to search for required details, which is applicable across all columns.

 

c. Click the Invoice Number hyperlink to view the invoice details.

 

 

d. The item details are displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Part A - 2. Amendments to B2B Invoices

 

Amended B2B invoices section covers the invoices which are amended by the supplier in their returns of Form GSTR-1/5 respectively.

 

a. Click the Amendments to B2B Invoices tile.

 

 

b. In supplier wise details, you can view amended B2B invoices uploaded by the supplier. Click the Supplier GSTIN hyperlink to navigate to view amended B2B Invoice summary.

Note1: Column “Effective Date of cancellation” is to show the retrospective date of cancellation in Form GSTR-2A.

 

 

Note2:

You can click DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download details of this table. You can download records upto 500 using this option.

You can use Display/Hide Columns option, to hide or show columns.

You can use Search feature to search for required details, which is applicable across all columns.

 

c. Click the Invoice Number hyperlink to view the invoice details.

 

 

d. The item details are displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Part A - 3. Credit/Debit Notes

 

This section covers the Credit/Debit notes added by the supplier in their respective returns (Form GSTR-1/5).

a. Click the Credit/Debit Notes tile.

 

 

b. In supplier wise details, you can view auto-drafted credit or debit notes, consolidated on basis of the supplier’s GSTIN. Click the Supplier’s GSTIN hyperlink to navigate to credit/debit note wise details and view the credit/debit notes received from the said supplier.

Note:

You can click DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download credit/debit note wise details of this table. You can download records upto 500 using this option.

You can use Display/Hide Columns option, to hide or show columns.

You can use Search feature to search for required details, which is applicable across all columns.

You can click the HELP button to get the help related to this page.

 

 

c. In this page, you can view credit/debit notes issued by the supplier. The number of credit/debit notes that can be viewed in this table is restricted to 500. Click the Credit/Debit note no. hyperlink to view the item wise details. If the number of credit/debit notes are more than 500, then you need to download the Form GSTR-2A to view it in the offline utility tool.

Note: By default, Applicable percentage (%), Tax period in which amended and Amendment type columns are hidden in credit/debit note wise details page.

 

Scenario 1: You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 2: You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 3: You will see the below screenshot, in case you have saved your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes and filed your statements/returns after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

Note: In this case, taxpayer will be able to view new fields in the form, related to credit/debit notes, uploaded post delinking of credit/debit notes. Thus, in respect of old data, taxpayer can view these data in the new format, but certain fields for which data is not available, will be blank.

 

 

d. The item details are displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Part A - 4. Amendments to Credit/Debit Notes

 

Amendments to Credit/Debit Notes section covers the amendments of Debit/ credit notes done by the supplier in their respective statements/returns (Form GSTR-1/5).

a. Click the Amendments to Credit/Debit Notes tile.

 

 

b. In supplier wise details, you can view auto-drafted amended credit or debit notes, consolidated on basis of the supplier’s GSTIN. Click the Supplier GSTIN hyperlink to navigate to amended credit/debit note wise details and view the amended credit/debit notes received from the said supplier.

 

Note:

You can click DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download amended credit/debit note wise details of this table. You can download records upto 500 using this option.

You can use Display/Hide Columns option, to hide or show columns.

You can use Search feature to search for required details, which is applicable across all columns.

You can click the HELP button to get the help related to this page.

 

 

c. In this page, you can view amended credit/debit notes issued by the supplier. The number of amended credit/debit notes that can be viewed in this table is restricted to 500. Click the Credit/Debit note no. hyperlink to view the item details.

Note: By default, Applicable percentage (%), Tax period in which originally reported and Amendment type columns are hidden in credit/debit note wise details page.

 

Scenario 1: You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 2: You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 3: You will see below screenshot, in case you have saved your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes and filed your returns after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

Note: In this case, taxpayer can view new fields related to credit/debit notes uploaded post delinking of credit/debit notes. For such notes original invoice fields will be blank. In respect old data, taxpayer can view original invoice number and invoice date, but new fields will be blank.

 

 

d. The item details are displayed.

 

 

Note: Following two tabs will be available only October 2022 onwards.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Part A - 5. ECO Documents

 

This section covers ECO invoices uploaded by ECO in table 15 under B2B or C2B option in form GSTR-1/IFF.

 

a. Click the ECO Documents tile.

 

 

b. ECO Details page will be displayed.

Note:

You can click DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download credit/debit note wise details of this table. You can download records upto 500 using this option.

You can use Display/Hide Columns option, to hide or show columns.

You can use Search feature to search for required details, which is applicable across all columns.

 

c. Click the hyperlink under GSTIN of ECO column to view further details.

 

 

d. ECO Document Summary page will be displayed.

e. Click the hyperlink under Document no. column to view document details.

 

 

 

f. Following details will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Part A - 6. Amendment to ECO Documents

 

This section covers amendemnets to ECO invoices uploaded by ECO in table 15A under B2B or C2B option in form GSTR-1/IFF.

 

a. Click the Amendment to ECO Documents tile.

 

 

b. Amendment ECO Documents - ECO Details page will be displayed.

Note:

You can click DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download credit/debit note wise details of this table. You can download records upto 500 using this option.

You can use Display/Hide Columns option, to hide or show columns.

You can use Search feature to search for required details, which is applicable across all columns.

 

c. Click the hyperlink under GSTIN of ECO column to view further details.

 

 

d. Amendment ECO Document - Summary page will be displayed.

 

e. Click the hyperlink under Original Document No. column to view document details.

 

 

f. Following details will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Part B - 1. Input Service Distributor - ISD Credits

 

The details of ISD Credits distributed by the Input Service Distributor, for credits available for Services among several GSTINs linked by common PAN, are auto populated to Form GSTR-2A on submission of Form GSTR-6 by ISDs.

 

a. Click the ISD Credits tile.

 

 

b. The ISD Credit Received page is displayed. Click the GSTIN hyperlink to invoices uploaded by the supplier.

 

 

Note:

PART B of Form GSTR-2A will be auto-populated on submission of Form GSTR-6.

You can click DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download credit/debit note wise details of this table. You can download records upto 500 using this option.

You can use Display/Hide Columns option, to hide or show columns.

You can use Search feature to search for required details, which is applicable across all columns.

 

c. Details related to ISD selected are displayed. Click the ISDCDN tab.

 

 

d. Input Service Distributor Credit and Debit Note (ISDCDN) details are displayed.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Part B - 2. Amendments to ISD Credits

 

 

Amendments to Input Service Distributor (ISD) Credits section covers the amendments of ISD credits done by the Input Service Distributor on submission of their Form GSTR-6, on basis of changes made by the suppliers in their respective returns (Form GSTR-1/5).

a. Click the Amendments to ISD Credits tile.

 

 

b. The Amended ISD Invoices-Supplier Details page is displayed. Click the GSTIN hyperlink to amended invoices uploaded by the supplier.

 

 

Note:

You can click DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download credit/debit note wise details of this table. You can download records upto 500 using this option.

You can use Display/Hide Columns option, to hide or show columns.

You can use Search feature to search for required details, which is applicable across all columns.

 

c. Input Service Distributor Amendment (ISDA) details are displayed. Click on the ISDCNA tab.

 

 

d. Input Service Distributor Credit Note Amendment (ISDCNA) details are displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Part C - 1. Tax Deducted at Source - TDS Credits

 

The details of advance tax deducted by the recipient from the supplier i.e. Tax Deducted at Source Credits, are auto populated in Form GSTR-2A of the recipient, after filing of Form GSTR-7 by TDS Deductor.

 

a. Click the TDS Credits tile.

 

 

b. The TDS Credit Received - Summary page is displayed.

 

 

Note:

PART C of Form GSTR-2A is auto-populated on filing of Form GSTR-7 by TDS Deductor.

You can click DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download details of this table. You can download records upto 500 using this option.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Part C - 2. Amendments to TDS Credits

 

Amendments to TDS Credits section covers the amendments of TDS credits done by the TDS Deductors, in their return Form GSTR-7, after its filing.

 

a. Click the Amendments to TDS Credits tile.

 

 

b. The Amendment to TDS Credit Received - Summary page is displayed.

 

Note: You can click DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download details of this table. You can download records upto 500 using this option.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Part C - D. TCS Credits

 

The details of Tax Collected at Source from the supplier by E Commerce Operators, towards supplies undertaken through them, i.e. TCS Credits, are auto populated in Form GSTR-2A of the recipient, after filing of Form GSTR-8 by TCS Collectors.

 

a. Click the TCS Credits tile.

 

 

b. The TCS Credit Received - Summary page is displayed.

 

 

Note:

PART C of Form GSTR-2A will be auto-populated on filing of Form GSTR-8 by TCS Collector.

You can click DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download details of this table. You can download records upto 500 using this option.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Part D- 1. Import of goods from overseas on bill of entry

 

Import of goods from overseas on bill of entry displays all the details related to import of goods from overseas, on bill of entry, as received from ICEGATE Portal of Indian Customs.

a. Click the Import of goods from overseas on bill of entry tile.

 

 

b. The Import of goods from overseas on bill of entry page is displayed with all the details.

Note: Reference date is the date when the goods have been cleared from customs. Based on the reference date assigned by ICEGATE Portal of Indian Customs, import data will auto populate to the relevant tax period of Form GSTR-2A. The reference date will always be greater than or equal to Bill of entry Date.

 

 

Note:

(i) You can click the Sort button to sort the details of the particular column.

 

 

(ii) You can click the HELP button to view the Help related to this page.

 

 

(iii) You can click the DOWNLOAD DOCUMENTS (CSV) button to download the details in CSV format.

 

 

(iv) Taxpayer can view original as well as amended bill of entry details. The amended column will be blank for original record. In case, amended record is available, then amended column will be ‘YES’. You can click the Yes hyperlink against the amended record to view the amendment history. The complete amendment history (IMPG) is displayed.

 

 

On clicking of the Yes hyperlink, a pop-up opens which shows the history of amendments (including the original record). In the Amendment History, there can be three scenarios: 

 

(a) For previous GSTIN, in case of GSTIN amendment of BoE, under Type of Amendment column, the term GSTIN will be shown in the month of the original record. No entry will be shown for previous GSTIN in the GSTR-2A of the month of GSTIN amendment.

 

(b) For amended GSTIN, the GSTIN amendment BoE will be shown in the import of goods tab of GSTR-2A for the month of amendment. In the

history of amendment pop-up, under Type of Amendment column, the term GSTIN will be shown in the month of the original record.

 

 

(c) In case of any value amendments occur before/after/without GSTIN amendment, Type of Amendment column will show the term VALUE.

 

 

(iv) Amendment history cannot be downloaded or viewed in GST Offline tool. In Excel/ GST Offline tool, the column would have values as Yes but no history can be viewed. Click on the CLOSE.

 

(v) You can also select Records Per Page drop-down list to view more records on a page.

 

 

(vi) You can use Search option to search for a specific text/value among the details displayed. This will work only for 500 records available on GST Portal. Details matching with the key words entered by you in the search box are displayed.

 

 

(vii) In case, the count of records is more than 500, you can download and view all records after importing the details into GST Offline tool. On GST Portal, you can use the Advanced Search feature to search for any specific details. Enter the Port Code, Bill of Entry Number and Bill of Entry Date and click SEARCH. Search results are displayed on the screen.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

Part D- 2. Import of goods from SEZ units / developers on bill of entry

 

Import of goods from SEZ units / developers on bill of entry displays all the details related to import of goods from SEZ Units or Developers on bill of entry, as received from ICEGATE Portal of Indian Customs.

 

a. Click the Import of goods from SEZ units / developers on bill of entry tile.

 

 

b. The Import of goods from SEZ units / developers on bill of entry page is displayed with all the details.

Note 1: Reference date is the date when the goods have been cleared from customs.

 

Note 2: You can explore the additional features as explained above.

 

 

On clicking of the Yes hyperlink, a pop-up opens which shows the history of amendments (including the original record). In the Amendment History, there can be three scenarios:

(i) For previous GSTIN, in case of GSTIN amendment of BoE, under Type of Amendment column, the term GSTIN will be shown in the month of the original record. No entry will be shown for previous GSTIN in the GSTR-2A of the month of GSTIN amendment.

(ii) For amended GSTIN, the GSTIN amendment BoE will be shown in the import of goods tab of GSTR-2A for the month of amendment. In the history of amendment pop-up, under Type of Amendment column, the term GSTIN will be shown in the month of the original record.

 

 

(iii) In case of any value amendments occur before/after/without GSTIN amendment, Type of Amendment column will show the term VALUE.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[27] Viewing Form GSTR-2A - Details of Auto Drafted Inward Supplies for Normal Taxpayer - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR_2A.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Form GSTR-2A
1. What is Form GSTR-2A?

Form GSTR-2A is a system generated Statement of Inward Supplies for a recipient. Form GSTR-2A will be generated in below scenarios:

When the supplier uploads the B2B transaction details in their Form GSTR-1 / 5/1A
ISD details will be auto-populated on submission of Form GSTR-6 by their Input Service Distributor
TDS & TCS details will be auto-populated on filing of Form GSTR-7 & 8 respectively by the counter party.
Auto-population of Import of goods from overseas, on bill of entry, as received from ICEGATE Portal of Indian Customs.
Auto-population of Import of goods from the ICEGATE system including inward supplies of goods received from SEZ Units / Developers.

 

Form GSTR-2A will be generated in the following manner:

After saving/filing/submission of Form GSTR-1/1A by suppliers or when counterparty adds invoices / Credit notes / Debit Notes etc. or make Amendments in Form GSTR-1/5.
Form GSTR-6 is submitted for distribution of credit in the form of ISD credit invoice or ISD credit notes.
Form GSTR-7 & 8 filed by the counterparty for TDS & TCS credit respectively.

 

The details become available to the recipient for view/download and are updated incrementally as and when supplier(s) upload or change details in their respective Form of return/statement, for the given tax period. Form GSTR-2A of a tax period is available for view/download only.

2. When can I as a taxpayer view Form GSTR-2A for a tax period?

1. Any/all invoices uploaded by supplier in their Form GSTR-1/ GSTR-5/GSTR-1A will be visible in Form GSTR-2A.

However, ISD details will be auto-populated to Form GSTR-2A on submission of Form GSTR-6, only.

2. When the counterparty has submitted/ filed their return: Invoices available in Form GSTR-2A will continue to be available for viewing.

3. Detail of TDS and TCS credit receipt will be available in Form GSTR-2A (Part C) of the recipient after filing of Form GSTR-7/8 by the counter party.

4. Auto-population of Import of goods data in Part D, as received from ICEGATE Portal of Indian Customs.

3. Do I as a taxpayer have to file Form GSTR-2A?

No, you don’t have to file Form GSTR-2A. It is a read-only document provided to you, so that you have a record of all the invoices received from various suppliers in a given tax period.

4. Can I as a taxpayer download and keep a copy of my Form GSTR-2A for future reference?

Yes, Form GSTR-2A for a given tax period will be available for viewing and/or downloading (in Excel and/or JSON formats) in post-login mode on the GST portal. The generated JSON file can be opened in Returns Offline Tool.

5. Can I as a taxpayer make changes to or add an invoice in my Form GSTR-2A, in case there are any errors or omission in the details uploaded by my supplier taxpayers?

No, you cannot make any changes or add an invoice to the Form GSTR-2A, as it is a read-only document. 

6. Which details are available in Form GSTR-2A?

Following details are available in Form GSTR-2A, in following sections:

a. PART A – auto-populated from Form GSTR-1/5/1A

b. PART B – auto-populated from Form GSTR-6 (ISD credits received)

c. PART C – auto-populated from Form GSTR-7 and GSTR-8

d. PART D – auto-populated based on ICEGATE Portal of Indian Customs.

7. When do I need to download details in Form GSTR-2A to view in Returns Offline Tool?

If number of invoices is more than 500, then you need to download the invoices in Form GSTR-2A to view it in Returns Offline Tool. Once the file is generated, the link will appear to download. Download the JSON file by clicking the link.

8. Can I hide and show columns in Form GSTR-2A?

You can use Display/Hide Columns option, to hide or show columns in Form GSTR-2A.

9. Can I search for required details in Form GSTR-2A?

You can use Search feature to search for required details, which is applicable across all columns in Form GSTR-2A.

10. Which tables are available under Part-D of Form GSTR-2A?

Below tables are available under Part-D of Form GSTR-2A:

Import of goods from overseas on bill of entry: Displays all the details related to import of goods from overseas on bill of entry, as received from ICEGATE Portal of Indian Customs.

Inward supply of goods from SEZ units / developers on bill of entry: Displays all the details related to inward supply of goods from SEZ units or developers on bill of entry, as received from ICEGATE Portal of Indian Customs.

11. Can I download details of Import of goods from overseas on bill of entry in Form GSTR-2A?

Yes, you can download details of Import of goods from overseas on bill of entry in Form GSTR-2A in csv format.

12. Can I download details of inward supply of goods from SEZ units / developers on bill of entry in Form GSTR-2A?

Yes, you can download details of inward supply of goods from SEZ units / developers on bill of entry in Form GSTR-2A in csv format.

13. How many records are available for viewing in Part D of Form GSTR-2A?

You can view upto 500 records in Part D of Form GSTR-2A. In case, the count of records is more than 500, you can download and view all records of Form GSTR-2A after importing the details into GST Offline tool.

14. Can I view amendment history for Bill of Entry (BoE) details available in Part D of Form GSTR-2A?

Taxpayer can view original as well as amended bill of entry details. The amended column will be blank for original record. In case, amended records is available, then ‘YES’ will be shown in amended column. You can click the Yes hyperlink against the amended record to view the amendment history. However, amendment history cannot be downloaded or viewed in GST Offline tool. In Excel/ GST Offline tool, the column would have values as Yes but no history can be viewed.

15. What are the different type of amendment shown in   the amendment history table under Type of Amendment column in GSTR-2A?

After introduction of GSTIN amendment in GSTR-2A, there can be following type of amendments:

1.    “GSTIN” :- For amendment in GSTIN of a particular record

2.    “Value” :- For amendment in value of a particular record

16. What is the meaning of Reference date in Part D of Form GSTR-2A?

Reference date is the date when the goods have been cleared from Customs. Based on the reference date assigned by ICEGATE Portal of Indian Customs, import data will auto populate to the relevant tax period of Form GSTR-2A. The reference date will always be greater than or equal to Bill of entry Date.

17. What is the impact of Debit/ Credit Note on Form GSTR-2A, before and after its delinking with invoices?

S. No

	

Before Delinking of Debit/ Credit Note with invoices

	

After Delinking of Debit/ Credit Note with invoices

1

	

Original invoice number and original invoice date were linked to notes and were auto-drafted from Form GSTR-1 for viewing.

	

Original invoice number and original invoice date fields are not linked to notes. Hence, these details are not available for viewing.

2

	

POS field was not available.

	

POS field is a mandatory field.

3

	

Note supply type and supply attract reverse charge fields were not available.

	

Note supply type and supply attract reverse charge fields are now available.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[28] Viewing Form GSTR-2B - Details of Auto Drafted Input Tax Credit (ITC) Statement - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_gstr2b.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Viewing Form GSTR-2B
How can I view and download Form GSTR-2B?

Form GSTR-2B is an auto-drafted ITC statement which will be generated for every registered person on the basis of the information furnished by his/her suppliers in their respective Form GSTR-1/IFF/1A & Form GSTR-5 and ITC received through Form GSTR-6. The statement will indicate availability of Input Tax Credit to the registered person against each document filed by his/her suppliers and the Input Service Distributor (ISD).

 

To view and download Form GSTR-2B on GST Portal, perform following steps:

 

1. Access the https://www.gst.gov.in/ URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard option.  Click B2B Invoices

Note: Alternatively, you can also click Return Dashboard.

 

 

2. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year, Quarter and Period (Month) for which you want to view Form GSTR-2B from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button. Form GSTR-2B tile is displayed.

 

3. Download GSTR-2B

4. View GSTR-2B

 

3. Download GSTR-2B

 

3.1. If number of documents across all tables of Form GSTR-2B is more than 1000, then you can either use the advance search option of download the document details in excel/JSON format from the download page of Form GSTR-2B. Click the DOWNLOAD button to navigate to download page of Form GSTR-2B.

 

 

3.2. Click the GENERATE JSON FILE TO DOWNLOAD button to generate data in the JSON format to view in Offline Matching Tool or click the GENERATE EXCEL FILE TO DOWNLOAD button to generate data in the excel format.

 

 

4. View GSTR-2B

 

4.1. In the Form GSTR-2B tile, click the VIEW button.

Note: If number of documents across all tables of Form GSTR-2B is less than 1000, then you can view the document details directly on GST Portal.

 

 

4.2. The Form GSTR-2B – AUTO DRAFTED ITC STATEMENT page is displayed. Form GSTR-2B has two tabs as SUMMARY and ALL TABLES.

 

ITC Available-

 

 

Note: From October 1st, 2024 onwards following ITC Available Summary table will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

ITC Not Available- Sample Image

 

 

Note: From October 1st, 2024 onwards following ITC  Not Available Summary table will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

ITC Rejected - Sample Image

From October1st, 2024 onwards following ITC  Rejected Summary table will be displayed on the screen.

 

SUMMARY TAB

4.3. The Summary tab is divided into 4 parts as ITC available,  ITC not available, ITC Reversal and ITC Rejected:

ITC Available: A summary of ITC available as on the date of its generation is divided into credit that can be availed and credit that is to net-off(Table 3).

ITC not Available: A summary of ITC not available is divided into ITC not available and ITC net-off (Table 4).

ITC Reversal: A summary of ITC Reversal.

ITC Rejected: This provides the summary of inward supplies and applicable ITC which is rejected on IMS dashboard and will not be populated in Form GSTR-3B.

 

 

Note 1: From October 1st 2024 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 2:

You can click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-2B SUMMARY (PDF) or DOWNLOAD GSTR-2B SUMMARY (EXCEL) button to view the Form GSTR-2B details in PDF or Excel format. The downloaded excel will contain the summary of Form GSTR-2B and all the table and document details. If the total number of documents across all tables is more than 1000, then DOWNLOAD GSTR-2B SUMMARY (EXCEL) button will be disabled. However, you may download the excel from Form GSTR-2B download page (refer step 3), by using the link given in information message below the summary table.

You can click on OPEN GSTR-3B button to go to GSTR-3B page. You can open IMS dashboard by clicking on OPEN IMS DASHBOARD button.

You can click the Expand All to expand/collapse all the sections available in Form GSTR-2B summary. By default, all the sections in Form GSTR-2B summary is in collapse mode.

Click the Help button to view the details related to this particular screen.

 

 

Click the View Advisory link to view and download the advisory. You can view the cut-off dates considered for Form GSTR-2B from the pop-up page. You can click the DOWNLOAD ADVISORY button to download Form GSTR-2B advisory in PDF format.

 

4.4. On click of the hyperlinks provided in the headings column of Form GSTR-2B summary, you can navigate in details in the GSTR-2B table and view pre-filtered document details.

 

 

Note 1: From October, 2024 onwards following Summary table will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

From October 1st, 2024 onwards following Summary table will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

4.5. Click B2B Invoices hyperlink available under Part A Section I of ITC Available summary to navigate to Taxable inward supplies received from registered person - B2B table.

 

Note: From October 1st, 2024 onwards following  table will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

4.6. You will be navigated to Documents Details under ALL TABLES tab for that particular section. You can view pre-filtered document details of inward supplies received from registered persons which is Other than reverse charge and ITC availability is yes.

 

 

Note: On click of amendment hyperlinks available in GSTR-2B summary, you will be navigated to the Document Details under ALL TABLES tab for the respective amendment table. You can view document details of all the amended documents.

 

4.7. If you have more than 1000 documents across all tables of Form GSTR-2B, document details table will not be displayed online. You can download GSTR-2B statement through excel/JSON by clicking on Download link as available in the information message (refer to step no.3).

 

Note:

Click Download Excel to download the details in an excel format.

Display/Hide Columns – Using this option, you can select columns to hide or show.

Records Per Page – This is an option available to fix the pagination. Taxpayer can use this option to view number of records per page.

Apply Filter – You can use the filter option and view auto-drafted documents as per the applied filter.

Search – This is a general search functionality which is applicable across all columns for the table being viewed. By using this functionality, you can search required details.

Sorting – Using this option  , you can sort the column details.

 

Note: If the number of records across all tables of Form GSTR-2B is more than 1000 documents, then advance search option will be enabled. By using this option, taxpayers can view a particular document. You can use Advance search option and click on download link to search for any document online as shown below.

 

 

4.8. Click the Invoice number hyperlink to view the details of tax. The Tax details are displayed.

 

 

4.9. Click on the Back to Summary button to go back to summary page.

 

 

4.10. Click B2B Invoices (Amendment) - IMS hyperlink available under Part A Section I of ITC Available summary to navigate to Amendments to previously filed invoices by supplier - B2BA table.

 

 

Note: If the number of records across all tables of Form GSTR-2B is more than 1000 documents, then advance search option will be enabled. By using this option, taxpayers can view a particular document. You can use Advance search option and click on the download link to search for any document online as shown below.

 

 

4.11. You will be navigated to Documents Details under ALL TABLES tab for the respective amendment table. You can view document details of all the amended documents.

 

 

4.12. Scroll on the right side to view more details.

 

 

4.13. If any remark is available for a record, a Remark hyperlink will be shown under Remarks column. When you click on this hyperlink, the saved remark will appear in a pop-up window. The pop-up will include a Cancel button to close the window.

 

 

 

Note: If there is no remark saved by recipient, No remarks available will be displayed under Remarks column.

 

 

4.14. Click on the Back to Summary button to go back to summary page.

 

 

 

Note 1: Similarly, you can see the details of other particulars in Part A and Part B by clicking on each hyperlink and performing the same steps as mentioned above.

 

Note 2: Similarly, you can view details for other tables under ITC available, ITC Not Available and ITC Reversal tabs.

 

ITC Reversal

 

Note: ITC reversal amount under Rule 37A will be calculated on the basis recipient’s GSTR-2B related to the tax period for which supplier’s GSTR-3B has not been filed. The system will calculate ITC reversal amount under Rule 37A after considering all invoices (excluding RCM invoices), debit notes and their corresponding amendments (i.e. excluding credit notes and amendments to credit notes) from their GSTR-2B pertaining to the tax period for which supplier’s GSTR-3B has not been filed.

 

1. Select ITC Reversal tab.

2. On clicking Expand All drop-down list.

 

Note:  From October 1st, 2024 onwards, following Summary table will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

All the particulars in Part A will be displayed on the screen.

 

Note: From October 1st, 2024 onwards following Summary table will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

3. Click B2B Invoices hyperlink available under Part A Section I of ITC Reversal summary to navigate to ITC Reversed - B2B table.

 

 

 

4. ITC Reversed - B2B table will be displayed with document wise details. 

 

 

 

 

4.1 Click the Invoice number drop-down list to view further details.

 

 

4.2 Select Supplier wise Details tab to view supplier wise details. Click the GSTIN hyperlink under GSTIN of Supplier column to view supplier wise details.

 

 

4.3. Click the Invoice number drop-down list to view tax details.

 

 

5. Click B2B Debit notes hyperlink available under Part A Section I of ITC Reversal summary. 

 

 

5.1 Debit notes(Original) - B2B DNR table will be displayed with B2B debit note wise details.

 

 

 

 

5.2 Click the Note number drop-down list to view further details.

 

 

5.3. Select Supplier wise Details tab to view supplier wise details. Click the GSTIN hyperlink under GSTIN of Supplier column to view supplier wise details.

 

 

5.4. Click the Note number drop-down list to view tax details.

 

 

6. Click B2B Invoices (Amendment) hyperlink available under Part A Section I of ITC Reversal summary.

 

 

6.1 Amendments to previously filed invoices by supplier - B2BA (ITC reversal) table will be displayed with list of amended B2B invoices.

 

 

 

 

6.2 Click the Invoice number drop-down list to view further details.

 

6.3. Select Supplier wise Details tab to view supplier wise details. Click the GSTIN hyperlink under GSTIN of Supplier column to view supplier wise amendment details.

 

 
6.4 Click the Invoice number drop-down list to view tax details.

 

 

7. Click B2B Debit notes (Amendment) hyperlink available under Part A Section I of ITC Reversal summary.

 

 

7.1 Amendments to previously filed Debit notes by supplier - B2B DNRA table will be displayed.

 

 

 

 

7.2    Click the Note number drop-down list to view further details.

 

 

7.3 Select Supplier wise Details tab to view supplier wise details. Click the GSTIN hyperlink under GSTIN of Supplier column to view supplier wise details.

 

 

7.4 Click the Note number drop-down list to view tax details.

 

 

Note:
1.    Click Back to Summary button to go back to GSTR-2B SUMMARY page.
2.    Click Download Excel to download the details in an excel format.
3.    You can use Display/Hide Columns option for selecting columns to hide or show.
4.    You can use Records Per Page option to fix the pagination. Taxpayer can use this option to view number of records per page.
5.     Use Apply Filter option and view auto-drafted documents as per the applied filter.
6.    Search option is a general search functionality which is applicable across all columns for the table being viewed. By using this functionality, you can search required details.
7.    Using the sorting option, to sort the column details.
 

ITC-Rejected

 

From October 1st,2024 onwards ITC Rejected tab will be displayed on the screen. This provides the summary of inward supplies and applicable ITC which is rejected on IMS dashboard and these records will  not be populated in Form GSTR-3B.

 

 

1. Click on ITC Rejected tab.

2. Click on Expand All drop-down list.

 

 

On clicking of  Expand All drop-down list all the particulars in Part A and Part B will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

3. Click B2B-Invoices-IMS hyperlink available under Part A Section I of ITC Rejected summary to navigate to ITC Rejected - B2B table.

 

 

Document Details of Taxable inward supplies recieved from registered person-B2B(ITC Rejected) will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Click the Invoice number drop-down list to view further details.

 

 

4. You can view and download the advisory by clicking on View Advisory hyperlink. You can click on HELP tab to take any help. 

Taxpayer can hide any column by clicking on Display/Hide Columns drop-down list. Taxpayer can choose the number of records on page by clicking on Records Per Page drop-down list. 

Taxpayer can filter the details by clicking on Apply filter icon. Taxpayer can also search for details by entering keywords in Search field.

You can download the details in excel format by clicking on Download Excel hyperlink.

 

5. You can check the supplier wise details by clicking on  Supplier wise Details tab. On clicking of hyperlink under GSTIN of supplier column you can see all the details of GSTIN. 

Click on Back to Summary tab to go back to summary page. 

 

 

6. If you have more than 1000 documents across all tables of Form GSTR-2B, document details table will not be displayed online. You can download GSTR-2B statement through excel/JSON by clicking on download hyperlink as available in the information message (refer to step 3 Download GSTR-2B).

 

Note: If the number of records across all tables of Form GSTR-2B is more than 1000 documents, then advance search option will be enabled. By using this option, taxpayers can view a particular document. You can use Advance search option to search for any document online as shown below. Enter GSTIN of Supplier, Invoice Number and Invoice Date in respective fields and click on Search button.

 

All the details of supplier will be displayed on the screen.

 

7. You can see the details of other  particulars in Part A and Part B by clicking on each hyperlinks and performing the same steps as mentioned above.

 

ALL TABLES TAB

Prior to October 2025 month:

 

4.10. Click ALL TABLES tab to select an appropriate table from the drop-down list to view details.

 

 

From October 2025 onwards, the following list will be displayed. Additional IMPG (Amendments) and IMPGSEZ (Amendments) are included.

 

 

B2B Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted inward supplies received from registered persons (including inward supplies attracting reverse charge) in this table.

B2BA Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted details of amendment to inward supplies received from registered persons (including inward supplies attracting reverse charge) in this table.

B2B CDNR Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted debit or credit notes received from registered persons in this table.

B2B CDNRA Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted of amendment debit or credit notes received from registered persons in this table.

ISD Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted details of input tax credit received from input service distributors/ ISD.

ISDA Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted details of amendment to input tax credit received from input service distributors/ ISDA.

IMPG Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view Original/fresh records of BoEs for import of goods from overseas.

IMPG (Amendments) of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view amendment records (value & GSTIN) of BoEs for import of goods from overseas.

IMPGSEZ Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view original/fresh records of BoEs for import of goods from SEZ.

IMPGSEZ (Amendments) of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view amendment records (value & GSTIN) of BoEs for import of goods from SEZ.

IMPG Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted details of import of goods from overseas on bill of entry.

IMPGSEZ Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted details of inward supply received from SEZ units / developers on bill of entry.

ECO Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted documents reported by ECO on which ECO is liable to pay tax u/s 9(5).

ECOA Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted amendment to documents reported by ECO on which ECO is liable to pay tax u/s 9(5).

ITC REVERSED Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted inward supplies received from registered persons (including inward supplies attracting reverse charge) on which ITC to be reversed on account of Rule 37A due to non-payment of tax by supplier in this table.

B2BA ITC REVERSAL Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted amendment to inward supplies received from registered persons (including inward supplies attracting reverse charge) on which ITC to be reversed on account of Rule 37A due to non-payment of tax by supplier in this table.

B2B DNR Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted debit notes received from registered persons on which ITC to be reversed on account of Rule 37A due to non-payment of tax by supplier in this table.

B2B DNRA Table of GSTR-2B: Taxpayer can view auto-drafted amended debit notes received from registered persons on which ITC to be reversed on account of Rule 37A due to non-payment of tax by supplier in this table.

4.11. On selecting a table, you can view the documents details of that table.

 

 

4.12. You can select Supplier wise Details tab, to view supplier wise details of the documents available in the said table.

 

 

4.13. On Click of GSTIN hyperlink, you can navigate to Document details tab and view documents received only from the said supplier.

 

 

Note:

Similarly, you can view details for other tables.

For Import of goods from overseas on bill of entry - IMPG table, only document details are available and no supplier wise details are available.

 

ECO - Documents

To view ECO-Documents details, perform following steps:

 

4.14.  Click on ECO-Documents hyperlink under Heading column. 

 

 

4.15. Documents Details table will be displayed.

 

 

Note: Alternatively, taxpayer can click to ALL TABLES, click on Select table to view details to expand drop-down list and select Documents reported by ECO on which ECO is liable to pay tax u/s 9(5) – ECO. Taxpayer can view the details for which ITC is available and ITC is not available both.
 

 

4.16.  All details of taxpayer will be displayed. Taxpayer can view or hide any of the option by selecting the option from Display/Hide Column dropdown.

 

 

4.17. Taxpayer can click on Apply filter tab to view any particular detail.

 

 

a)    Taxpayer can filter the details by filling From and To date in Document date section or by selecting Document Type from the dropdown list or by entering GSTR-1/IFF Filing Date or by selecting ITC Availability from the dropdown list. Click on Apply button to proceed or Reset button to reset the filters or Back button to navigate Document Details page.

 

 

4.18. Taxpayer can download the details in Excel format by clicking on Download Excel tab.

 

 

4.19. Taxpayer can view details according to page number by clicking on Records Per Page drop down list and taxpayer can search details by entering the keywords or numbers in Search section.

 

 

4.20. Taxpayer can view ECO wise details under ECO wise details tab and by clicking the hyperlink of GSTIN of ECO, it will navigate to Documents Details page.

 

 

4.21. Taxpayer can click on HELP button to get any help related to Documents Details or ECO wise Details.

 

 

Help page will be displayed.

 

 

4.22. Click on Back to Summary button to navigate on summary page.

 

 

ECO – Documents (Amendment)

4.23. Click on ECO-Documents (Amendment) hyperlink under Heading column.

 

 

4.24. Documents Details table will be displayed.

 

 

Note: Alternatively, taxpayer can click to ALL TABLES >> Select table to view details >> click Amendments to documents reported by ECO on which ECO is liable to pay tax u/s 9(5) – ECOA to view Documents Details. Taxpayer can view the details for which ITC is available and ITC is not available both.

 

 

4.25.  All details of taxpayer will be displayed. Taxpayer can view or hide any of the option by selecting the option from Display/Hide Column dropdown.

 

 

4.26. Taxpayer can click on Apply filter tab to view any particular detail.

 

 

a.    Taxpayer can filter the details by filling From and To date in Document date section or by selecting Document Type from the dropdown list or by entering GSTR-1/IFF Filing Date or by selecting ITC Availability from the dropdown list. Click on Apply button to proceed or Reset button to reset the filters or Back button to navigate Document Details page.

 

 

4.27. Taxpayer can download the details in Excel format by clicking on Download Excel tab.

 

 

4.28. Taxpayer can view details according to page number by clicking on Records Per Page drop down list and taxpayer can search details by entering the keywords or numbers in Search section.

 

 

4.29. Taxpayer can view ECO wise details under ECO wise details tab and by clicking the hyperlink of GSTIN of ECO, it will navigate to Documents Details page.

 

 

4.30. Taxpayer can click on HELP button to get any help related to Documents Details or ECO wise Details.
 

 

Help page will be displayed.

 

 

4.31. Click on Back to Summary button to navigate on summary page.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[29] Viewing Form GSTR-2B - Details of Auto Drafted Input Tax Credit (ITC) Statement - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQ_gstr2b.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Viewing Form GSTR-2B
Form GSTR-2B
1. What is Form GSTR-2B?

Form GSTR-2B is an auto-drafted ITC statement which will be generated for every registered person on the basis of the information furnished by his/her suppliers in their respective Form GSTR-1/1A & Form GSTR-5 and ITC received through Form GSTR-6. The statement will indicate availability of Input Tax Credit to the registered person against each document filed by his/her suppliers and the Input Service Distributor (ISD).

Form GSTR-2B also contains information on import of goods from the ICEGATE system including inward supplies of goods received from SEZ Units/Developers.

2. What is the use of Form GSTR-2B?

Form GSTR-2B should be used by taxpayers to take the right input tax credit in respective sections of Form GSTR-3B.

3. Do I as a taxpayer have to file Form GSTR-2B?

No, you don’t have to file Form GSTR-2B. It is only a read-only static auto-drafted ITC statement which indicates the availability of Input Tax Credit to you against each document filed by your suppliers and ITC received through ISD.

4. When will Form GSTR-2B be generated?

For monthly receipients:
Form GSTR-2B will be generated for each month on the 14th day of the succeeding month. For example, for the month of July 2020, the statement will be generated and made available to the registered person on 14th August 2020.

For quaterly receipients:
Form GSTR-2B will be generated for each quarter on the 14th day of the succeeding month of the quarter. For example, for the quarter of April-June 2024, the statement will be generated and made available to the registered person on 14th July 2024.

 

Please note that Form GSTR-2B will consist of all documents filed by suppliers/ISD in their Form GSTR-1/1A/IFF, 5 & 6, between the cut-off dates. It will also consist import data for the period which are received within 13th of the succeeding month.

 

In case of monthly Form GSTR-1/1A, the cut-off date is 00:00 hours on 12th of the relevant month to 23:59 hours, on 11th of the succeeding month. Whereas for quarterly Form GSTR-1/1A/IFF, Form GSTR-5 and Form GSTR-6, the cut-off date is 00:00 hours on 14th day of relevant month to 23:59 hours, on 13th day of succeeding month.

5. By when details filed in Form GSTR-1/1A and Form GSTR-6 would reflect in Form GSTR-2B?

The details filed in Form GSTR-1/1A & 5 (by supplier) & Form GSTR-6 (by ISD) would reflect in the next open Form GSTR-2B of the recipient irrespective of supplier’s/ISD’s date of filing. For e.g., if a supplier files a document INV-1 dt. 15.07.2020 on 11th August, it will get reflected in GSTR-2B of July (generated on 12th August). If the document is filed on 12th August, 2020 the document will be reflected in Form GSTR-2B of August (generated on 12th September).

6. Can I as a taxpayer make changes to or add document in my Form GSTR-2B, in case there are any errors or omission in the details uploaded by my supplier taxpayers?

No, you cannot make any changes or add document to the Form GSTR-2B, as it is a read-only static ITC statement.

View and Download Form GSTR-2B
1. Which taxpayers can view Form GSTR-2B?

Form GSTR-2B is available only for the following types of taxpayers:

Normal taxpayers

SEZ taxpayers

Casual taxpayers

2. How can I view and download Form GSTR-2B statement of a tax period?

Navigate to Services> Returns > Returns Dashboard > File Returns > GSTR 2B Tile to view and download Form GSTR-2B statement of a tax period.

Note: Form GSTR-2B statement for a particular tax period is available for view and download only after the Form GSTR-2B gets generated for that tax period.

3. Can I as a taxpayer download and keep a copy of my Form GSTR-2B for future reference?

Yes, Form GSTR-2B for a given tax period will be available for viewing and/or downloading (in Excel and/or JSON formats) in post-login mode on the GST portal.

4. Can I download individual table wise details in Form GSTR-2B?

Yes, you can download individual table wise details in Form GSTR-2B by clicking Download Excel link available in document details. Such link will be available only when the total number of documents across all tables is upto 1000 documents.

For more than 1000 records, you may either use the advance search option or download the entire file.

5. Should I reconcile my books of accounts with the data generated in FORM GSTR-2B?

Taxpayers are advised to ensure that the data generated in Form GSTR-2B is reconciled with their own records and books of accounts. Taxpayers must ensure that

i. No credit is availed twice for any document under any circumstances.

ii. Credit is reversed as per GST Act and Rules in their Form GSTR-3B.

iii. Tax on reverse charge basis is paid.

6. Which values gets auto-populated from Form GSTR-2B in Form GSTR-3B?

Following values based on system generated Form GSTR-2B are auto-populated in Form GSTR-3B:

 

GSTR-3B table 	GSTR-2B table	Reference
3.1(d) Inward supplies liable to reverse charge	3 Part A Section III                              
4 Part A Section III	This is auto-populated from FORM GSTR-2B. Positive values shall be reported in respective table. Positive values get auto populated. 
However, if GSTR-2B value is in Negative, then system auto-populates zero in GSTR-3B.
4A (1)	Table 3 Part A Section IV	System will auto-populate on net basis (i.e., values can be positive or negative, as the case may be).
4A (3)
ITC Available – Inward supplies liable to reverse charge (other than 1 & 2 above)	

(a)    Table 3 Part A Section III
(b)    Table 3 Part B Section I–[B2B–Credit notes (Reverse charge)+B2B–Credit notes(Reverse   charge) (Amendment)]
(c)    Table 4 Part B Section I– [B2B–Credit notes (Reverse charge) + B2B–Credit notes (Reverse charge) (Amendment)]

4A(3) = (a) – (b) – (c)

	

System will auto-populate on net basis (i.e., values can be positive or negative, as the case may be).   

Note: Above sections covers Invoices, Debit notes and Credit notes on net basis.

4A (4)
ITC Available – Inward Supplies from ISD	(a) Table 3 Part A Section II
(b) Table 3 Part B Section I– [ISD–Credit notes + ISD –Credit notes (Amendment)]
(c) Table 4 Part B Section I – [ISD–Credit notes + ISD–Credit notes (Amendment)]      4A(4) = (a) - (b) - (c)	

 System shall auto-populate on net basis (i.e., values can be positive or negative, as the case may be).   

Note: Above sections covers Invoices and Credit notes on net basis.

4A (5)
ITC Available – All other ITC - Supplies from registered persons other than reverse charge 	

(a)    Table 3 Part A Section I
(b)    Table 3 Part B Section I – [B2B– Credit notes+ B2B–Credit notes (Amendment)]
(c)    Table 4 Part B Section I –[B2B–Credit notes + B2B–Credit notes (Amendment)]

4A(5) = (a) – (b) – (c)

	

System shall auto-populate on net basis (i.e., values can be positive or negative, as the case may be).   

Note: Above sections covers Invoices, Debit notes and Credit notes on net basis.

4D (2)
Ineligible ITC under section 16(4) & ITC restricted due to PoS rules 	(a)    Table 4 Part A Section I,
(b)    Table 4 Part A Section II
(c)    Table 4 Part A Section III    	This is auto-populated from FORM GSTR-2B. This covers the following:
Invoices and Debit Notes (including amendment) on which ITC is not available (Due to Section 16(4) Rule and POS is in supplier’s state) will be auto-populated in table 4D (2) of GSTR-3B.

7. Can I edit auto-populated Form GSTR-2B values in Form GSTR-3B?

Yes, as of now, the values auto-populated in Form GSTR-3B from Form GSTR-1/IFF/1A and GSTR-2B are kept editable. However, the tile with edited field will be highlighted in RED and a warning message will be displayed . You can still view the system computed values by hovering over the edited values. 

8. Whether the details auto-populated in Form GSTR-3B from Form GSTR-1/1A and GSTR-2B is available in a downloadable format?

Yes, the system generated summary having the details of values auto-populated from Form GSTR-1/IFF/1A and GSTR-2B along with detailed breakup is made available in a PDF format. You can download this system generated summary of GSTR-3B in pdf format by clicking System Generated GSTR-3B button available at the bottom of GSTR-3B page. 

9. What are the inputs of Form GSTR-2B? 

• All the B2B information/documents (invoices, credit and debit notes) filed by suppliers in their monthly or quarterly GSTR-1/IFF/1A and GSTR-5 filed by NRTP taxpayers. 
• Information filed by ISD taxpayers in their GSTR-6. 
• Information of ITC of IGST paid on import of goods filed in ICEGATE.

10. What is the cut-off dates for details filed in Form GSTR-1/1A, GSTR-5 and Form GSTR-6  for their reflection in Form GSTR-2B?

Cut-off dates for GSTR-2B generation are on the basis of due dates of Form GSTR-1/1A/IFF, GSTR-5 and GSTR-6 as illustrated below. 
• For monthly Form GSTR-1/1A filers, any GSTR-1/1A filed between the due date of furnishing for previous month (M-1) to the due date of furnishing of GSTR-1/1A for the current month (M). For example, GSTR-2B generated for the month of Jan, 2021 contains the details of all the documents filed by suppliers in their monthly Form GSTR-1/1A from 00:00 hours on 12th Jan, 2021 to 23:59 hours on 11th Feb 2021.
• For quarterly Form GSTR-1/1A/IFF, GSTR-5 and 6 filers, any IFF/GSTR-1/1A/5 and GSTR-6 filed between the due date for previous month (M-1) to the due date of furnishing for the current month (M). For example, Form GSTR-2B generated for the month of Jan, 2021 contains the details of all the documents filed by suppliers in their quarterly GSTR-1/1A/IFF, GSTR-5 and 6 from 00:00 hours on 14 th Jan, 2021 to 23:59 hours on 13 th Feb 2021. 
• The documents furnished by the supplier in any GSTR-1/1A/IFF, GSTR-5 and 6 would reflect in the next GSTR-2B of the recipient irrespective of the date of issuance of the concerned document. For example, if a supplier furnishes a document INV-1 dt. 15.05.2021 in the FORM GSTR-1/1A for the month of July, 2021 filed on 11th August 2021, the details of INV-1, dt. 15.05.2021 will get reflected in GSTR-2B of July 2021 (generated on 14th August 2021) and not in the GSTR-2B of May, 2021.

Details in Form GSTR-2B
1. Where does ITC available and not-available summary shown?

• ITC Available Summary is captured in Table-3 of GSTR-2B which shows the ITC available as on the date of generation of FORM GSTR-2B. It is divided into following parts:

 

A. Part A captures the summary of credit that may be availed in relevant tables of FORM GSTR-3B.
B. Part B captures the summary of credit that shall be reversed in relevant table of FORM GSTR-3B. 

 

• ITC not-available summary is captured in Table 4 of GSTR-2B which shows the summary of ITC not available as on the date of generation of FORM GSTR-2B, under the specific scenarios. Credit reflected in this table shall not be entered in Table 4(A) of FORM GSTR-3B.

• Credit shown as “ITC Not available” in Table 4, Part A covers the following scenarios only: -

 

A.    Invoice or debit note for supply of goods or services or both where the recipient is not entitled to input tax credit as per the provisions of sub-section (4) of Section 16 of CGST Act, 2017.

B.    Invoice or debit note where the Supplier (GSTIN) and place of supply are in the same State while recipient is in another State.

 

However, there may be other scenarios for which Input Tax Credit may not be available to the taxpayers as per other legal provisions. Taxpayers are advised to exercise caution and self-assess & reverse such credit in their FORM GSTR-3B. 

2. Which information is displayed in GSTR-2B and what happens in case of negative ISD?
Table No. and Heading	 Instructions
Table 3 Part A Section I
All other ITC - Supplies from registered
persons other than reverse charge	 i. This section consists of the details of supplies (other than those on which tax is to be paid on reverse charge basis), which have been declared and filed by your suppliers or by ECOs in their FORM GSTR-1/1A/IFF and 5.
ii. This table displays only the supplies on which input tax credit is available.
iii. Negative credit, if any may arise due to amendment in B2B– Invoices, ECO-Documents and B2B – Debit notes. Such credit shall be reversed in Table 4(A)(5) of FORM GSTR-3B.
Table 3 Part A Section II
Inward Supplies from ISD	i. This section consists of the details of supplies, which have been declared and filed by an input service distributor in their FORM GSTR-6.
ii. This table displays only the supplies on which ITC is available.
iii. Negative credit, if any, may arise due to amendment in ISD Amendments – Invoices. Such credit shall be reversed in table 4(A)(4) of FORM GSTR-3B.
Table 3 Part A Section III
Inward Supplies liable for reverse charge 	i. This section consists of the details of supplies on which tax is to be paid on reverse charge basis, which have been declared and filed by your suppliers in their FORM GSTR-1/1A/IFF.
ii. This table provides only the supplies on which ITC is available.
iii. These supplies shall be declared in Table 3.1(d) of FORM GSTR-3B for payment of tax. Credit may be availed under Table 4(A)(3) of FORM GSTR-3B on payment of tax
Table 3 Part A Section IV
Import of Goods 	 i. This section provides the details of IGST paid by you on import of goods from overseas and SEZ units / developers on bill of entry and amendment thereof. These details are updated on near real time basis from the ICEGATE system.
ii. This table shall consist of data on the imports made by you (GSTIN) in the month for which GSTR-2B is being generated for.
iii. The table also provides if the Bill of entry was amended.
iv. Information is provided in the tables based on data received from ICEGATE. Information on certain imports such as courier imports may not be available.
Table 3 Part B Section I
Others	 i. This section consists of the details of credit notes received and amendment thereof which have been declared and filed by your suppliers in their FORM GSTR-1/1A/IFF and 5
ii. Such credit shall be reversed under Table 4(A)(5) of FORM GSTR-3B.
Table 4 Part A Section I
All other ITC - Supplies from registered
persons other than reverse charge 	i. This section consists of the details of supplies (other than those on which tax is to be paid on reverse charge basis), which have been declared and filed by your suppliers or by ECOs in their FORM GSTR-1/1A/IFF and 5.
ii. This table provides only the supplies on which ITC is not available.
iii. This ineligible credit will populate in Table 4(D)(2) of GSTR-3B.
Table 4 Part A Section II
Inward Supplies from ISD	 i. This section consists of the details supplies, which have been declared and filed by an input service distributor in their FORM GSTR-6.
ii. This table provides only the supplies on which ITC is not available.
iii. This ineligible credit will populate in Table 4(D)(2) of GSTR-3B.
Table 4 Part A Section III
Inward Supplies liable for reverse charge	 i. This section consists of the details of supplies liable for reverse charge, which have been declared and filed by your suppliers in their FORM GSTR-1/1A/IFF.
ii. This table provides only the supplies on which ITC is not available.
iii. These supplies shall be declared in Table 3.1(d) of FORM GSTR-3B for payment of tax. However, credit will not be available on such supplies.
Table 4 Part B Section I
Others	i. This section consists details the credit notes received and amendment thereof which have been declared and filed by your suppliers in their FORM GSTR-1/1A/IFF and 5.
ii. This table provides only the credit notes on which ITC is not available.
iii. Such credit shall be reversed under Table 4(A)(5) of FORM GSTR-3B.

   

3. What details are available in Form GSTR-2B summary?

Form GSTR-2B summary is bifurcated into following two summaries:

ITC Available: A summary of ITC available as on the date of its generation and is divided into credit that can be availed and credit that is to be reversed (Table 3)

ITC not Available: A summary of ITC not available and is divided into ITC not available and ITC reversal (Table 4)

4. What details are available in PART-A of ITC Available?

The PART-A of ITC Available contains details of inward supplies (invoices, debit notes and amendments related to invoices and debit notes) and import of goods received from suppliers, in the following manner:

All Other ITC – Supplies from registered persons

B2B – Invoices

B2B – Debit notes

ECO - Document

B2B – Invoices (Amendment)

B2B – Debit Notes (Amendment)

ECO - Document (Amendment)

Inward Supplies from Input Service Distributor/ISD

ISD – Invoices

ISD – Invoices (Amendment)

Inward Supplies liable for reverse charge

B2B – Invoices

B2B – Debit notes

B2B – Invoices (Amendment)

B2B – Debit Notes (Amendment)

Import of Goods

IMPG – Import of goods from overseas

IMPG (Amendment)

IMPGSEZ – Import of goods from SEZ

IMPGSEZ (Amendment)

5. What details are available in PART-B of ITC Reversal?

The PART-B of ITC Reversal contains details of credit notes and amendments thereof issued by the suppliers or ISD, in the following manner:

B2B – Credit Notes

B2B – Credit notes (Amendment)

B2B – Credit Notes (Reverse charge)

B2B – Credit notes (Reverse charge) (Amendment)

ISD – Credit notes

ISD Amendment – Credit notes

6. What details are available in PART-A of ITC Not Available?

The PART-A of ITC Not Available contains details of inward supplies (invoices, debit notes and amendments related to invoices and debit notes) received from suppliers, in the following manner:

All Other ITC – Supplies from registered persons

B2B – Invoices

B2B – Debit notes

ECO - Document

B2B – Invoices (Amendment)

B2B – Debit Notes (Amendment)

ECO - Document (Amendment)

Inward Supplies from Input Service Distributor/ISD

ISD – Invoices

ISD – Invoices (Amendment)

Inward Supplies liable for reverse charge

B2B – Invoices

B2B – Debit notes

B2B – Invoices (Amendment)

B2B – Debit Notes (Amendment)

7. What details are available in PART-B of ITC Not Available?

The PART-B of ITC Not Available contains details of credit notes and amendments thereof issued by the suppliers or ISD, in the following manner:

B2B – Credit Notes

B2B – Credit notes (Amendment)

B2B – Credit Notes (Reverse charge)

B2B – Credit notes (Reverse charge) (Amendment)

ISD – Credit notes

ISD Amendment – Credit notes

8. How are amendments taken into account for summary tables?

Summary wise details of all amendment tables in Form GSTR-2B displays the differential tax amount (Amended – Original), i.e., the delta value. However, the document details will display revised details with reference to the original document.

9. What information is displayed in IMPG, IMPGA, IMPGSEZ and IMPGSEZA pages in GSTR-2B?

Name of Page	 Information displayed
Import of goods from overseas on bill of entry - IMPG	Original/fresh records of BoEs for import of goods from overseas
IMPG (Amendments)	Amendment records (value & GSTIN) of BoEs for import of goods from overseas
Import of goods from SEZ units/developers on bill of entry - IMPGSEZ	Original/fresh records of BoEs for import of goods from SEZ
IMPGSEZ (Amendments)	Amendment records (value & GSTIN) of BoEs for import of goods from SEZ

10. In GSTR-2B, what happens when a GSTIN amendment is made for a Bill of Entry (BoE)?

In case of a GSTIN amendment, an ITC reversal entry for the incorrect GSTIN will be shown as the first entry under the IMPGA tab in GSTR-2B. This entry will be displayed in blue color.

For the correct GSTIN, a new entry will be shown under IMPGA tab in GSTR-2B.

ITC Eligibility - Form GSTR-2B
1. Whether taxpayer is eligible to take credit / ITC on all the supplies auto-drafted in Form GSTR-2B?

Taxpayers would be eligible to avail input tax credit based on the ITC indicated in Form GSTR-2B, as per availability/ eligibility of ITC. However, there may be other scenarios for which Input Tax Credit may not be available to the taxpayers and the same has not been generated by the system in Form GSTR-2B. Taxpayers, are advised to self-assess and reverse or take such credit in their Form GSTR-3B.

2. What are the different scenarios where ITC is not available?

Only in the following scenarios, ITC availability is shown as No in Form GSTR-2B: -

i. Invoice or debit note for supply of goods or services or both where the recipient is not entitled to time barred Input Tax Credit u/s 16(4) of CGST, Act.

ii. Invoice or debit note where the Supplier (GSTIN) and place of supply are in the same State, while recipient is in another State.

Additional Features - Form GSTR-2B
3. Which are the columns as a taxpayer I can hide and show?

On selection, a taxpayer can hide and show all the columns except:

GSTIN of supplier / ISD

Taxable value

Integrated Tax

Central Tax

State Tax

4. When will the Advance search option be enabled?

If the number of records across all tables of Form GSTR-2B is more than 1000 documents, then advance search option will be enabled. By using this option, taxpayers can view a particular document.

5. Where can a taxpayer view the cut off dates in Form GSTR-2B?

Taxpayer can view cut off dates in Form GSTR-2B page under View Advisory.

ICEGATE-Form GSTR-2B
1. What should be done if IGST of imports is not featuring in GSTR-2B? 

GSTR-2B also contains information on import of goods from the ICEGATE system including inward supplies of goods received from Special Economic Zones Units / Developers. This is made available from GSTR-2B of August 2020 onwards. To help importers of goods, and recipients of supplies from SEZ, search Bill of Entry details,  a self-service functionality has been made available on the GST Portal that can be used to search such records in GST System, and fetch the missing records from ICEGATE.

 

Note: It usually takes some time (after reference date) for BE details to get updated on GST Portal from ICEGATE. This functionality should, therefore, be used if data is not available after this T-5 days (T:Today) . The reference date would be either Out of charge date, Duty payment date, or amendment date - whichever is later.

2. How can I use Search Bill of Entry facility on GST Portal?

Taxpayers can follow the below steps to fetch the requisite details:
a)    Login to GST Portal
b)    Navigate to Services > User Services > Search BoE
c)    Enter the Port Code, Bill of Entry Number, Bill of Entry Date and Reference Date and click the SEARCH button.

Note: The reference date would be either Out of charge date, Duty payment date, or amendment date - whichever is later.

 

d)    If the BoE details do not appear in the Search results, click on the QUERY ICEGATE button, at the bottom of the screen, to trigger a query to ICEGATE.
e)    History of fetched BoE details from ICEGATE along with status of query are displayed after 30 minutes from the time of triggering the query.

Note : 
(i) For records of type IMPG (Import of Goods), details of: Period for Form GSTR-2A (system generated Statement of Inward Supplies); Reference Date; Bill of Entry Details like Port Code, BoE Number, BoE Date & Taxable Value; and Amount of Tax would be displayed. 
(ii) For records of type IMPGSEZ (Import of Goods from SEZ), details of: Period for Form GSTR-2A; Reference Date; GSTIN of Supplier; Trade Name of Supplier; Bill of Entry Details like Port Code, BoE Number, BoE Date & Taxable Value; and Amount of Tax would be displayed.

3. What about reverse charge entries?

It may be noted that reverse charge credit on import of services is not a part of this statement and will be continued to be entered by taxpayers in Table 4(A)(2) and Table 3.1(D) of GSTR-3B.

34. Which values gets auto-populated from Form GSTR-2B in Form GSTR-3B?

Following values based on system generated Form GSTR-2B are auto-populated in Form GSTR-3B:

 

GSTR-3B table 	GSTR-2B table	Reference
3.1(d) Inward supplies liable to reverse charge	3 Part A Section III                              
4 Part A Section III	This is auto-populated from FORM GSTR-2B. Positive values shall be reported in respective table. Positive values get auto populated. 
However, if GSTR-2B value is in Negative, then system auto-populates zero in GSTR-3B.
4A (1)	Table 3 Part A Section IV	System will auto-populate on net basis (i.e., values can be positive or negative, as the case may be).
4A (3)
ITC Available – Inward supplies liable to reverse charge (other than 1 & 2 above)	

(a)    Table 3 Part A Section III
(b)    Table 3 Part B Section I–[B2B–Credit notes (Reverse charge)+B2B–Credit notes(Reverse   charge) (Amendment)]
(c)    Table 4 Part B Section I– [B2B–Credit notes (Reverse charge) + B2B–Credit notes (Reverse charge) (Amendment)]

4A(3) = (a) – (b) – (c)

	

System will auto-populate on net basis (i.e., values can be positive or negative, as the case may be).   

Note: Above sections covers Invoices, Debit notes and Credit notes on net basis.

4A (4)
ITC Available – Inward Supplies from ISD	(a) Table 3 Part A Section II
(b) Table 3 Part B Section I– [ISD–Credit notes + ISD –Credit notes (Amendment)]
(c) Table 4 Part B Section I – [ISD–Credit notes + ISD–Credit notes (Amendment)]      4A(4) = (a) - (b) - (c)	

 System shall auto-populate on net basis (i.e., values can be positive or negative, as the case may be).   

Note: Above sections covers Invoices and Credit notes on net basis.

4A (5)
ITC Available – All other ITC - Supplies from registered persons other than reverse charge 	

(a)    Table 3 Part A Section I
(b)    Table 3 Part B Section I – [B2B– Credit notes+ B2B–Credit notes (Amendment)]
(c)    Table 4 Part B Section I –[B2B–Credit notes + B2B–Credit notes (Amendment)]

4A(5) = (a) – (b) – (c)

	

System shall auto-populate on net basis (i.e., values can be positive or negative, as the case may be).   

Note: Above sections covers Invoices, Debit notes and Credit notes on net basis.

4D (2)
Ineligible ITC under section 16(4) & ITC restricted due to PoS rules 	(a)    Table 4 Part A Section I,
(b)    Table 4 Part A Section II
(c)    Table 4 Part A Section III    	This is auto-populated from FORM GSTR-2B. This covers the following:
Invoices and Debit Notes (including amendment) on which ITC is not available (Due to Section 16(4) Rule and POS is in supplier’s state) will be auto-populated in table 4D (2) of GSTR-3B.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[30] Viewing Form GSTR-3A - System Generated Notice - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_gstr3a.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > System generated Form GSTR-3A
Where can I view and download system generated Form GSTR-3A?

To view and download system generated notice in Form GSTR-3A, taxpayer may perform the following steps:

 

1. Access the GST Portal. The GST Home page is displayed. Using your valid credentials, login to the GST Portal. Click the Services > User Services > View Notices and Orders option.

 

 

2. The View Notices and Orders page is displayed.

 

 

3. Click the Download hyperlink to download system generated notice in Form GSTR-3A (issued to taxpayers under section 46).

 

 

3.1 System generated notice in Form GSTR-3A is displayed in PDF format.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[31] Viewing Form GSTR-3A - System Generated Notice - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_gstr3a.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > System generated Form GSTR-3A
Overview of Form GSTR-3A
1. What is Form GSTR-3A?

Form GSTR-3A is a system generated notice which is issued to the taxpayers who have failed to file return in Form GSTR-3B or Annual Return, Final Return or Collection of Tax at source within the due date.

 2. What is the relevance of Form GSTR-3A?

Notice in Form GSTR-3A informs the taxpayers to file Form GSTR-3B or Annual Return, Final Return or Collection of Tax at source for a tax period within fifteen days of the issue of such notice.

3. What is the difference between Form GSTR-3A and Form GSTR-3B?

Form GSTR-3A is a notice issued to the taxpayers who have failed to file return in FormAnnual Return, Final Return or Collection of Tax at source by due date, whereas Form GSTR-3B is the simplified summary return filed by the taxpayers.  

Download of Form GSTR-3A
4. From where can the taxpayer view and download system generated Form GSTR-3A?

Access to GST Portal and login using your credentials. Navigate to Services > User services > View Notices and Orders. Click Download button to download system generated Form GSTR-3A notice in PDF format.

Post issuance of notice in Form GSTR-3A
5. What must a taxpayer do after receiving notice in Form GSTR-3A?

After receiving a notice in Form GSTR-3A, the taxpayer must file return in Form Annual Return, Final Return or Collection of Tax at source, as the case may be, within 15 days of issue of such notice and discharge the tax liability along with late fee and interest, if any.

In case, taxpayer fail to file relevant return for the relevant tax period as specified in the notice, then further course of action can be taken or will be assessed accordingly (as per Section 62 of the Act) by the Tax Official.

Alert to Taxpayers to file Return
7. After the due date, will the taxpayer receive any SMS/email from the GST Portal?

Taxpayers (Primary authorized signatory) who fail to file return in Form GSTR-3B by the due date, would be alerted about non filing of return through an SMS / email on 25th of any month.      

For example: If the due date to file GST Return is 24th May, then SMS / email will be sent from 25th May at 12:00 am, to inform the Primary authorized signatory about non filing of return.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[32] Filing Form GSTR-3B - Monthly and Quarterly Return by Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/gstr3bonline

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Filing Form GSTR-3B - Monthly Return by Normal Taxpayer
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[33] Filing Form GSTR-3B - Monthly and Quarterly Return by Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/gstr3bnil

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Filing Nil Form GSTR-3B Online by Normal Taxpayer
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[34] Filing Form GSTR-3B - Monthly and Quarterly Return by Normal Taxpayer - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR3B_-_File_Nil_Return.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Filing Nil Form GSTR-3B through Online
How can I file "Nil" Form GSTR-3B return?

‘Nil’ return can be filed by you for a particular tax period, if you have not made any outward supply (commonly known as sale) and have NOT received any inward supply (commonly known as purchase) of any goods/ services and do not have any tax liability for that particular tax period.

Please note that you can also file Nil Form GSTR-3B using SMS facility. For details click here.

 

To file Form GSTR-3B Nil return, after login into the GST Portal, perform the following steps:

Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-3B – Monthly Return page

Preview Draft Form GSTR-3B

File Form GSTR-3B

Download Filed Return

Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-3B – Monthly Return page

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard command.

 

 

4. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Return Filing Period (Month) for which you want to file the return from the drop-down list.

5. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

6. The File Returns page is displayed. This page displays the due date of filing the returns, which the taxpayer is required to file using separate tiles.

In the Form GSTR-3B tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button.

 

Note: The due date for filing Form GSTR-3B is displayed on this page.

 

 

7. To file Nil return taxpayer must perform following steps:

a.    Select Yes for option A. Click the NEXT button. All other options will get disabled once the taxpayer selects Yes in question A.

 

 

Subsequent steps will be similar to filing Form GSTR-3B, navigate to respective sections for detailed steps:
•    Preview Draft Form GSTR-3B
•    File Form GSTR-3B
•    Download Filed Return  

Note: The questionnaire page is hidden by default if any of the below mentioned conditions are not satisfied. By default, Is nil return will be marked as No and if conditions are satisfied then Is Nil will be marked as yes which can be changed to no.
After that taxpayer will be able to file Nil Return by clicking on Yes button. 
A Nil return can only be filed if all the following conditions are satisfied:
1.    No data is auto-populated from Form GSTR-1 or IFF (applicable only if Form GSTR-1 was filed as a Nil return).
2.    No data is auto-populated from Form GSTR-2B (which indicates no Form GSTR-2B was generated for the period).
3.    No manual entries have been made by the taxpayer.
4.    There is no outstanding interest or late fee liability.

 

8. Click the NEXT button.

 

 

The Form GSTR-3B – Filing of Tax page is displayed.

 

Preview Draft Form GSTR-3B

1. Click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-3B button to view the summary page of Form GSTR-3B for your review.

 

 

2. This button will download the draft summary page of your Form GSTR-3B for your review. All entries will be zeroes. Since, no payment is involved, therefore, table 6.1 will not be there. The PDF file generated would bear watermark of ‘DRAFT’ as the details are yet to be filed.

 

 

File Form GSTR-3B

1. Select the checkbox for declaration.

2.  From the Authorised Signatory drop-down list, select the authorized signatory.

3. Click the FILE GSTR-3B WITH DSC or FILE GSTR-3B WITH EVC button.

 

 

4. Click the PROCEED button.

 

 

FILE Form GSTR-3B WITH DSC:

a. Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

FILE Form GSTR-3B WITH EVC:

a.  Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VERIFY button.

 

 

5. The success message is displayed. Click the OK button.

 

 

The status of Form GSTR-3B is changed to Filed.

Download Filed Return

1. Click the DOWNLOAD FILED GSTR-3B button to download the filed return.

 

 

The PDF file generated would now bear watermark of final Form GSTR-3B.

 

2. Click the Back button.

3. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Return Filing Period (Month) for which you want to view the return from the drop-down list.

4. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

Status of the Form GSTR-3B return changes to "Filed". You can click the VIEW GSTR3B button to view the Form GSTR-3B return.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[35] Filing Form GSTR-3B - Monthly and Quarterly Return by Normal Taxpayer - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_gstr3b_online.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Filing Nil Form GSTR-3B through Online
1. What Nil Form GSTR-3B is filed?

Form GSTR-3B can be filed as a nil return if there are no outward supplies as well as liability (including reverse charge liability) in the month, for which the return is being filed for. This form can be filed nil, in both online mode and in offline mode (by SMS).

2. What are the conditions required for NIL filing?

The questionnaire page is hidden by default if any of the below mentioned conditions are not satisfied. By default, Is nil return will be marked as No and if conditions are satisfied then Is Nil will be marked as yes which can be changed to no. After that taxpayer will be able to file Nil Return by clicking on Yes button. 
A Nil return can only be filed if all the following conditions are satisfied:
1.    No data is auto-populated from Form GSTR-1 or IFF (applicable only if Form GSTR-1 was filed as a Nil return).
2.    No data is auto-populated from Form GSTR-2B (which indicates no Form GSTR-2B was generated for the period).
3.    No manual entries have been made by the taxpayer.
4.    There is no outstanding interest or late fee liability.
If any of these conditions are not fulfilled, the taxpayer cannot select the Nil File option.
For example:
•    A taxpayer has filed Form GSTR-1 using is Nil filing checkbox for Feb. 24 return period.
•    There was no interest and late fees liability for this return period.
•     No manual entry made by the taxpayer.
•    Form GSTR-2B not generated due to any technical reason or user is filing before cut-off date hence no auto-population happened. 
Here all condition satisfy, taxpayer can file Nil form for Form GSTR 3B.

3. Is filing of Form GSTR-3B as Nil return mandatory?

Filing of Form GSTR-3B is mandatory for all normal and casual taxpayers, even if there is no business activity in any particular tax period. So, for such tax period(s), the return can be filed as NIL (if all conditions for filing Nil return is satisfied).

4. By when can I file Nil Form GSTR-3B?

A taxpayer may file Nil Form GSTR-3B, anytime on or after the 1st of the subsequent month for which the return is being filed for.

For example, for the month of April 2020, nil return can be filed only on or after 1st May 2020.

5. How can I file Nil Form GSTR-3B?

You can file nil Form GSTR-3B by navigating to Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard. Select the Financial Year and Returns Filing Period and click the GSTR3B tile.

Select Yes for option A 'Do you want to file Nil return?'.You can file nil Form GSTR-3B by affixing the applicable signature.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[36] Filing Form GSTR-3B - Monthly and Quarterly Return by Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/gstr3bnilsms

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Filing Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS by Normal Taxpayer
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[37] Filing Form GSTR-3B - Monthly and Quarterly Return by Normal Taxpayer - Overview of Filing
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=faq_nilreturngstr3b.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Filing Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS
About Nil Form GSTR-3B
1.  When can Form GSTR-3B be filed as Nil?

Form GSTR-3B can be filed as a nil return if there are no outward supplies as well as liability (including reverse charge liability) in the month, for which the return is being filed for. This form can be filed nil, in both online mode and in offline mode (by SMS).

2. Who can file Nil Form GSTR-3B?

Nil Form GSTR-3B for a tax period can be filed, if you:

Have NOT made any Outward Supply and

Do NOT have any reverse charge liability

Do NOT intend to take any Input tax credit and

Do NOT have any Liability for that particular or earlier Tax Period.

 

For example, if your answer to any of below questions is in affirmative, your GSTR-3B return for a particular tax period will not be a nil return:

1. Have you made any supply of goods/services (including nil rated, exempt and non-GST supplies) or received any supplies liable to reverse charge or exempt, nil rated and non-GST inward supplies during this tax period?

2. Have you made any inter-state supplies to unregistered persons, composition taxable persons or UIN holders?

3. Do you intend to reverse Input Tax Credit (ITC)?

4. Do you have any interest or late fee (including carry forward late-fee) liability to be paid?

5. Do you have any tax liability, due to Form GST TRAN-1?

6. Any other liability which is liable to be paid by you, while filing your return?

3. Is filing of Form GSTR-3B as Nil return mandatory?

Filing of Form GSTR-3B is mandatory for all normal and casual taxpayers, even if there is no business activity in any particular tax period. So, for such tax period(s), the return can be filed as NIL (if all conditions for filing Nil return is satisfied).

4. By when can I file Nil Form GSTR-3B?

A taxpayer may file Nil Form GSTR-3B, anytime on or after the 1st of the subsequent month for which the return is being filed for.

For example, for the month of April 2020, nil return can be filed only on or after 1st May 2020.

About Filing Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS
5. Can I file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS, instead of filing online through GST Portal?

Yes, you can file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS, instead of filing it through online mode on GST Portal.

6. Who is eligible to file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS?

Any taxpayer who fulfills the below conditions, are eligible to file Nil Form GSTR-3B, through SMS:

Taxpayer must be registered as Normal taxpayer/ Casual taxpayer/ SEZ Unit / SEZ Developer and must have a valid GSTIN.

Authorized signatory and his/ her phone number must be registered on the GST Portal.

There is no pending liability of previous period tax, interest or late fee while filing Nil Form GSTR-3B.

All GSTR-3B return of previous tax periods must be filed.

There must not be any data in saved stage, in online version of Form GSTR-3B, on the GST Portal.

7. Who is authorized to file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS, on behalf of the taxpayer?

All the authorized representatives, for a particular GSTIN, are allowed to file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS.

Note:

If more than one Authorized Signatories/ Representatives have the same mobile number registered on the GST Portal, such Authorized Signatories cannot file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS. In such scenario, Authorized Signatory first need to update their mobile number on the GST Portal, through non-core amendment process, by giving unique mobile number for every authorized signatory for that requested GSTIN.

Other Authorized Signatories/ Representatives with unique mobile number registered on the GST Portal, can file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS.

8. I am an Authorized Signatory and my mobile number has been registered for more than one GSTIN. Can I file Nil Form GSTR-3B, through SMS for all GSTINs?

Yes, you can file Nil Form GSTR-3B, through SMS for all GSTINs, for whom you are an Authorized Signatory, from the same mobile number.

9. My Authorized Signatories have been reset by the Tax Official. Can I file Form GSTR-3B Nil return through SMS?

In case, your Authorized Signatories have been reset by the Tax Official, you need to first reactivate your User ID by navigating to GST Portal > Login > here link. Click here to know more about it.

Post reactivating your User ID, you can file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS.

Help SMS Format
10. How do I get help on Nil Form GSTR-3B filing through SMS?

You need to send SMS in below format to get help related to filing Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS:

SMS Format: HELP space<Return Type>

Example: HELP 3B

 

Filing Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS
11. How can I file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS?

To file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS, follow the below mentioned steps. Let's take an example that you need to file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS for a GSTIN 33AACCA1121EAZE for tax period (monthly filer) February 2020.

 

S.No.

	

Step-List

	

SMS Format

	

Example

1.	

Send SMS to 14409 number to file Nil Form GSTR-3B.

	

NIL space<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period>

	NIL 3B 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 022019
2.	

After receiving the SMS, GST Portal will check for the validations.

Note:

If validations for filing Nil Form GSTR-3B are satisfied, you will receive a “Verification CODE” on the same mobile number from which you have sent the SMS to complete the filing.

If validations for Nil filing are not satisfied, you will receive appropriate response/ error message to the same mobile number from which you have sent the SMS.

Note: Verification Code is usable only once and will expire within 30 minutes. Please do not share this with anyone.

	

 

	 
3.	

Send SMS again on the same number 14409 with Verification Code (For Example: Verification Code received here is 107543) to confirm filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B.

Note: Taxpayers are required to compose a new text message to 14409.

	

CNF space<Return Type>space<Code>

	

CNF 3B 107543

4	

After successful validation of “Verification Code", GST Portal will send back ARN to same mobile number and on registered e-mail ID of the taxpayer to intimate successful Nil filing of Form GSTR-3B .

	

 

	   

 

12. I have saved my data/summary for a particular return period on the GST Portal. Can I file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS for that period?

You cannot file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS, for the tax period, for which you have saved data/summary on the GST Portal. It means that if you have some saved data in your Form GSTR-3B, on GST Portal, you need to continue filing of your Form GSTR-3B through online mode on GST Portal.

13. Is there any difference in filing Nil Form GSTR-3B and Form GSTR-1 through SMS?

There is no difference in filing Nil Form GSTR-3B and Form GSTR-1 through SMS except the return type format.

Return type format for Form GSTR-3B is 3B and for Form GSTR-1 is R1.

 

Send SMS to 14409 for

	

Filing Form GSTR-1

	

Filing Form GSTR-3B

Getting Help Assistance

	

Help R1

	

Help 3B

Filing Nil Return

	

Monthly Filing - NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 042020

Quarterly Filing - NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 062020

 

	

NIL 3B 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 042020

 

Sending Verification Code

	

CNF R1 324961

	

CNF 3B 324961

 

For help on filing Nil Form GSTR-1 by SMS, click here.

Verification Code
14. What is the validity of Verification Code?

Verification Code is valid for 30 minutes.

15. Verification Code consists of how many digits?

Verification Code consists of 6 numeric digits only.

16. Can I use Verification Code multiple times?

No, Verification Code is usable only once.

17. Is SMS text case sensitive, in case of filing Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS?

No, SMS text is not case sensitive.

18. I have received a message that my mobile number has been blocked for 24 hours. Why?

In case, incorrect Verification Code is provided, more than three times during a day, the GSTIN and Mobile number combination for that particular day, will be blocked for filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS ONLY. You can try filing Nil Form GSTR-3B, through SMS, after 24 hours. However, you can login to the GST Portal to continue filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B, through online mode.

19. I have sent correct Verification Code, but I have received SMS that the code is not valid. Why?

It is possible that your Verification Code has expired. You can send the SMS again, in the desired format, to receive a new Verification Code. Please wait for at least 5 minutes after generating any new Verification Code.

Note: When you generate fresh Verification Code, previous Verification Code becomes invalid. In such case, you will have to provide new Verification Code to file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS.

Post Filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS
20. What will happen after successful filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B, through SMS?

After successful filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B, through SMS:

ARN will get generated.

The status of Form GSTR-3B is changed to Filed on GST Portal.

An SMS and e-mail will be sent to the e-mail and mobile number of the primary authorized signatory.

In case, sender is authorized signatory, SMS will be sent to his/her mobile number also.

21. I have filed Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS. Do I need to login again to the GST Portal to file Nil Form GSTR-3B?

Once you have filed Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS, you do not need to login to the GST Portal again to file Nil Form GSTR-3B. After successful filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B, through SMS, the status of Form GSTR-3B is changed to Filed on GST Portal.

22. I have filed Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS. Can I revise the filed return for the requested tax period?

No, you cannot revise filed Nil Form GSTR-3B, for the requested tax period, after filing it through SMS.

23. From where can I track the status of my filed Form GSTR-3B return?

Navigate to Services > Returns > Track Return Status option to track the status of your filed Form GSTR-3B return on the GST Portal.

 

Click here to go to Troubleshooting Errors

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[38] Filing Form GSTR-3B - Monthly and Quarterly Return by Normal Taxpayer - Troubleshooting Errors
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Troubleshooting_Errors_3b.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Troubleshooting Errors (Form GSTR-3B through SMS)
Error Messages, Description and Solution
1. What are the various error messages, their description and solution?

S.No.

	

Error/Information message

	

Error/ Information Description

	Solution
1	

Invalid input. For Help, please SMS HELP<space><Return Type> E.g. Help for Nil filing GSTR3B send HELP 3B. Send to 14409

	

This message is received when the Keyword (NIL, CNF or HELP) is not as per standard format i.e. there is an issue with keyword NIL, CNF or HELP.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send the message in correct format for keyword NIL, CNF or HELP, as given below.

NIL space<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period>

CNF space<Return Type>space<Code>

HELP space<Return Type>

2

	

Request failed. Incorrect message format. Retry as: NIL <Return Type> <GSTIN> <Period> To file NIL 3B for Mar 2020: NIL 3B 07CQZCD1111I4Z7 032020 Send to 14409.

	

This message is received when message contents sent for filing NIL Form GSTR-3B are not as per standard format, like:

a. GSTIN structure; or

b. Return period; or

c. Return type is not correct

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send NIL message again as per below format:

NIL space<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period>

 

And send it with correct GSTIN Structure, Return Period or Return Type.

3

	

Request failed. Mobile number not registered for 11AAAAA1111A1AA. Please retry with registered mobile number or update mobile number on GST Portal.

	

This message is received when Mobile number is not registered as authorized signatory for that particular GSTIN.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send SMS from registered mobile number of the authorized signatory of that particular GSTIN.

4

	

Request failed. Same mobile number is registered for multiple signatories of 11AAAAA1111A1AA. Please retry post updating mobile number on GST portal.

	

This message is received when Mobile number is registered for more than one authorized signatory for that particular GSTIN.

	

Same mobile number can’t be used by multiple authorized signatories, for the requested GSTIN, for filing Nil Form GSTR-3B. In such scenario, you first need to update the mobile number of the authorized signatory on the GST Portal, through non-core amendment process, by giving unique mobile number for every authorized signatory for that requested GSTIN.

 

Note: Same mobile number can be used for filing Nil Form GSTR-3B for other GSTINs.

5

	

Request failed. Invalid GSTIN. Please retry with valid GSTIN as below: To file NIL return for Mar 2020: NIL 3B 07CQZCD1111I4Z7 032020. Send to 14409.

	

This message is received when GSTIN format is correct, but GSTIN is not registered on the GST Portal.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send SMS with valid GSTIN, which is registered on the GST Portal.

6

	

Request failed. Incorrect format or Code Mismatch. Retry as: CNF 3B <CODE> Send to 14409. Mobile no. would be blocked for 24hrs in case of 3 continuous failure.

	

This message is received when taxpayer sends SMS in invalid format or code.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send the SMS in prescribed format and with correct Validation Code, to file Nil Form GSTR-3B. In case, mismatch for Verification Code happens for 3 times continuously, then that particular mobile number will be blocked for 24 hours.

 

7

	

Request failed. GSTR3B already filed for 11AAAAA1111A1AA and tax period 012020. Please retry with different GSTIN or tax period.

	

This message is received when GSTIN provided has already filed return for the tax period provided.

	

If the taxpayer has already filed Form GSTR-3B (online/ SMS) for the requested tax period, then Nil Form GSTR-3B can’t be filed again through SMS for that particular return period.

8

	

Request failed. GSTR3B for previous tax period not filed for 11AAAAA1111A1AA. Please retry after filing return for previous tax period.

	

This message is received when GSTIN provided has not filed the previous tax period Form GSTR-3B return.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to file all previous Form GSTR-3B returns, to file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS, for that particular tax period.

9

	

You have exceeded maximum number of attempts for the day. Please try again after 24hrs. You may continue to file your return on www.gst.gov.in.

	

This message is received when repeated SMS in incorrect format is sent from same mobile number and then mobile number gets blocked for 24 hours.

	

You can try filing Nil Form GSTR-3B, through SMS, after 24 hours. However, you can login to the GST Portal to continue filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B, through online mode.

 

You can also try filing Nil Form GSTR-3B, through SMS, using another authorized signatory’s registered mobile number.

10

	

123456 is the CODE for Nil filing of 3B for 11AAAAA1111A1AA for period 012020. Code validity is 30 min. Confirm return filing by sending: CNF 3B <CODE> to 14409

	

This message is received when you send a SMS in format as NIL space<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period> to initiate filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send a SMS in format as CNF space<Return Type>space<Code> to confirm filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B.

11

	

Request failed. Invalid or expired Code. Re-initiate Nil filing. Retry as: To file NIL return of GSTIN for Mar 2020: NIL 3B 07CQZCD1111I4Z7 032020 Send to 14409

	

This message is received in case you have sent SMS:

With Verification Code without creation of the request for filing Nil Form GSTR-3B or

With Verification Code post expiration of the code for filing Nil Form GSTR-3B

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send a SMS in format as NIL space<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period> to initiate filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B.

 

In case, mismatch for Verification Code happens for 3 times continuously, then that particular mobile number will be blocked for 24 hours.

12

	

Request failed. Pending liabilities exist for tax period 042020 for 11AAAAA1111A1AA.

Please continue return filing on www.gst.gov.in.

	

This message is received in case GSTIN provided is not eligible for filing Nil Form GSTR-3B for that particular return period, as there is pending tax, interest, late fee or any other liability pending.

	

Once you receive this message, it means that there are pending liabilities which needs to be paid by you. Therefore, you need to continue filing of your Form GSTR-3B through online mode on GST Portal.

13

	

Your last request for 11AAAAA1111A1AA for period 042020 is still under progress; generation of code may take up to 5 mins.

	

This message is received when another request for Verification Code is sent by you within 5 minutes of an earlier request sent for generation of code.

	

Code generation will take around 5 minutes. Once you receive this message, you need to wait for 5 minutes to send another request for Verification Code. Even after waiting for 5 minutes, if you have not received code, then you can request for a new code.

14

	

To file NIL return of GSTIN for Mar 2020: NIL 3B 07CQZCD1111I4Z7 032020. To confirm

Nil filing: CNF 3B CODE. Send to 14409. More details on www.gst.gov.in

	

This message is received when you send message for getting help related to filing Nil Form GSTR-3B.

	

Once you receive this message, you can send a SMS in format as NIL space<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period> to initiate filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B.

15

	

Request failed. An existing request is under process for 11AAAAA1111A1AA and tax period 032020. Please try again later.

	

This message is received, in case, two authorized signatories send parallel request to file Nil Form GSTR-3B for same GSTIN and return period and the previous request is still being processed.

	

Once 2nd authorized signatory receives this message, he/she must wait for some time until the previous request sent by 1st authorized signatory is processed to file Nil Form GSTR-3B.

 

You can also check with other authorized signatories, in case, they have sent the request for filing Nil Form GSTR-3B from their mobile number.

16

	

Your, 11AAAAA1111A1AA, GSTR3B for tax period 042020 is filed successfully and ARN is AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA. Please use this ARN to track the status of your return.

	

This message is received on successful verification of code and filing of Nil Form GSTR-3B.

	

Once you receive this message, it means that you have successfully filed Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS. You can login to the GST Portal for tracking the status of your filed return.

17

	

Nil filing request for 11AAAAA1111A1AA for period 042020 could not be processed. Please try again or continue to file return on www.gst.gov.in.

 

	

This message is received when Verification Code validation fails due to technical issues on GST Portal.

	

Once you receive this message, wait for some time and try filing Nil Form GSTR-3B again, if you do not receive any ARN for Nil Filing of Form GSTR-3B.

18

	

Incorrect message format. For Help, please SMS HELP<space><Return Type> E.g. Help for Nil filing GSTR3B send HELP 3B Send to 14409

	

This message is received, in case HELP keyword is sent in incorrect format to get Help related to filing Form GSTR-3B.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to send a SMS in format as

HELP space<Return Type> to get Help related to filing Nil Form GSTR-3B.

19

	

Request failed. 11AAAAA1111A1AA is not a regular taxpayer during the requested tax period. Please retry with another GSTIN or tax period.

	

This message is received if GSTIN mentioned in SMS is not registered as regular taxpayer for that particular return period, on GST Portal.

	

To file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS, GSTIN has to be registered as a regular taxpayer, for that particular return period. You can check on the GST Portal, if the GSTIN, during the requested tax period is registered as regular (normal/casual/SEZ) taxpayer. If not, you can try filing Form GSTR-3B for another tax period where taxpayer is registered as regular (normal/casual/SEZ) taxpayer.

20

	

Request failed. 11AAAAA1111A1AA was cancelled prior to requested tax period 042020. Please retry with another GSTIN or tax period.

	

This message is received, if the GSTIN registration was already cancelled, from a date prior to return period for which the Nil Form GSTR-3B is being filed.

	

Nil Form GSTR-3B cannot be filed for a particular tax period, if GSTIN registration was cancelled from a date prior to the requested tax period. Try filing Nil Form GSTR-3B, for some other tax period, when GSTIN registration was active.

21

	

Request failed. Requested tax period 042020 is prior to date of registration for 11AAAAA1111A1AA. Please retry with another GSTIN or tax period.

	

This message is received, if the period for which Nil Form GSTR-3B is being filed, is before the date of registration for the GSTIN.

	

Nil Form GSTR-3B cannot be filed for the period, if the requested tax period is prior to date of registration. Try filing Nil Form GSTR-3B, for some other tax period, on or after the date by when registration was active.

22

	

Request failed. Please activate your User ID on GST portal. Retry as below: To file NIL 3B of GSTIN for Mar 2020: NIL 3B 07CQZCD1111I4Z7 032020 Send to 14409

	

This message is received in case the taxpayer has not activated/reactivated their USER ID on the GST Portal.

	

If taxpayer has changed the authorized signatory, then he/she has to reactivate the USER ID on GST Portal, to file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS.

Further, for a new taxpayer also, USER ID has to be activated on the GST Portal, before attempting to file Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS.

23

	

Request failed. 11AAAAA1111A1AA not eligible to file nil return for tax period 0402020 via SMS. Please continue return filing on the www.gst.gov.in

	

This message is received in case the GSTIN is not eligible for filing Nil Form GSTR-3B.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to check eligibility criteria required for filing Nil Form GSTR-3B. Post meeting all the requirements, you can initiate filing Nil Form GSTR-3B through SMS.

24

	

Request failed. Saved data exists for GSTR3B for 11AAAAA1111A1AA for tax period 042020. Please continue to file return on www.gst.gov.in

 

	

This message is received in case:

GSTIN provided is not eligible for filing Nil Form GSTR-3B, due to saved data in your Form GSTR-3B, on GST Portal during NIL request or

GSTIN provided is not eligible for filing Nil Form GSTR-3B due to saved data in your Form GSTR-3B, on GST Portal during CNF request

	

Once you receive this message, it means that you have some saved data in your Form GSTR-3B, on GST Portal. Therefore, you need to continue filing of your Form GSTR-3B through online mode on GST Portal.

25

	

Request failed. GSTR3B can be filed only on or after 1st of month following the tax period 042020. Please try with another GSTIN or tax period.

	

This message is received in case you try to file Nil Form GSTR-3B before 1st of the subsequent month for which the return is being filed for.

	

Once you receive this message, you need to Nil Form GSTR-3B on or after 1st of the subsequent month for which the return is being filed for.

For example, for the month of April 2020, nil return can be filed only on or after 1st May 2020.

26

	

Please confirm the Nil filing using code received. In case of non-receipt of code please try again after 5 min.

	

This message is received when the request for Verification Code is sent again by you within 5 minutes of sending the SMS for generation of code and code is still being processed.

	

Code generation will take around 5 minutes. Once you receive this message, you need to wait for 5 minutes. Even after waiting, if you have not received code, then you can request for generation of new code (after 5 minutes).

 

Click here to go to Overview of Filing

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[39] Filing Form GSTR-3B - Monthly and Quarterly Return by Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/schemavalidationerror

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Troubleshooting Schema Validation Error while Uploading JSON in Form GSTR-3B
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[40] Filing Form GSTR-3B - Monthly and Quarterly Return by Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/offsetliabilityerror

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Troubleshooting 1059 Error Code while Offsetting Liabilities in Form GSTR-3B
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[41] Filing Form GST CMP-08 – Quarterly Statement for Payment of Self-assessed Tax by Composition Taxpayer (FY 2019-20 onwards) - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_CMP02.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Filing Form GST CMP-08
How can I create and file details in Form GST CMP-08?

To file quarterly statement in Form GST CMP-08, perform following steps:

A. Login and Navigate to Form GST CMP-08 page

B. File NIL Form GST CMP-08, if required

C. Enter details in Table 3

D. Preview Form GST CMP-08

E. Proceed to File and Payment of Tax

F. File Form GST CMP-08 with DSC/ EVC

A. Login and Navigate to Form GST CMP-08 page

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard command.

Alternatively, you can also click the Returns Dashboard link on the Dashboard.

 

 

4. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Return Filing Period (Quarter) for which you want to file the statement from the drop-down list.

5. Click the SEARCH button.

6. The File Returns page is displayed. In the GST CMP-08 tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button.

 

 

7. The Statement for payment of self-assessed tax is displayed.

 

 

B. File NIL Form GST CMP-08, if required

8. In case of Nil GST CMP-08, select the check box for File Nil GST CMP-08. On enabling the checkbox, the following texts will be displayed:

 

 

 To continue further for filing Form GST CMP-08, click here.

C. Enter details in Table 3

9. Enter details in Table 3 and click on ‘SAVE’ to save details.

 

 

10. A success message will appear on clicking 'SAVE'. Click OK.

 

 

D. Preview GST CMP-08

11. Click PREVIEW DRAFT GST CMP-08 and a pdf file will be downloaded on your machine.

 

 

12. The downloaded page is displayed.

 

 

E. Proceed to File and Payment of Tax

13. Click on PROCEED TO FILE to file GST CMP-08.

 

 

14. A message will appear in a green box above the table to check the status in sometime.

 

 

15. Refresh the screen after sometime and Payment of Tax page is displayed. Available cash balance as on date in Electronic Cash Ledger is shown to the taxpayer in "Cash Ledger Balance" table.

 

 

15.1. Scenario 1: If available cash balance in Electronic cash ledger is more than the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash is required for paying liability. You can preview and then file Form GST CMP-08, as explained in below steps.

 

 

15.2. Scenario 2: If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then additional cash required to be paid by taxpayer is shown in the "Additional Cash Required" column. You may create challan for the additional cash directly by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

ii. The Create Challan page is displayed.

Note: In the Tax Liability Details grid, the Total Challan Amount field and Total Challan Amount (In Words) fields are auto-populated with total amount of payment to be made. You cannot edit this amount.

 

 

iii. Select the Payment Modes as E-Payment/ Over the Counter/ NEFT/RTGS.

iv. Click the GENERATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

 

 

v. The Challan is generated. Click on DOWNLOAD button to download the challan.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vi. Downloaded challan is displayed here. Click on MAKE PAYMENT button.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Note: 

In case of Net Banking: You will be directed to the Net Banking page of the selected Bank. The payment amount is shown at the Bank’s website.

In case of successful payment, you will be re-directed to the GST Portal where the transaction status will be displayed.

 

In case of Over the Counter:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Pay using Cash/ Cheque/ Demand Draft within the Challan’s validity period. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

In case of NEFT/ RTGS:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Mandate form will be generated simultaneously. Pay using Cheque or through your account with the selected Bank/ Branch. You can also pay using the account debit facility. The transaction will be processed by the Bank and RBI shall confirm the same within <2 hours>. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

Click here to refer the FAQs and User Manual on Making Payment.

 

vii. Go to Returns Dashboard again, note the Additional Cash required is Nil now.

To preview GST CMP-08, click on PREVIEW DRAFT GST CMP-08 (PDF).

 

 

16. GST CMP-08 is displayed in a pdf format.

 

 

F. File Form GST CMP-08 with DSC/ EVC

17. declarationSelect the checkbox against the . Choose the Authorised Signatory from the drop-down.

 

 

18. Click on FILE GST CMP-08.

 

 

19. Click the YES button.

 

 

20. The Submit Application page is displayed. Click the FILE WITH DSC, FILE WITH EVC or FILE WITH STAK button.

 

 

20.1. FILE WITH DSC:

a. Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

20.2. FILE WITH EVC:

a. Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VALIDATE OTP button.

 

 

20.3. FILE WITH STAK:

a. STAK (Single time authentication key) is generated on the “GST Secure OTP” mobile app which the user can provide while signing the form.

 

 

 

21. The success message is displayed and ARN is displayed. Status of the Form GST CMP-08 changes to “Filed”. Go BACK to download filed GST CMP-08.

 

 

22. Download the filed GST CMP-08 by clicking on DOWNLOAD FILED GST CMP-08.

 

 

23. Downloaded filed GST CMP-08 is displayed here.

 

 

24. The status for Statement for payment of self-assessed tax GST CMP-08 will be shown as filed. To download Signed Form PDF, click on the DOWNLOAD button. 

 

 

25. Download Filed Form CMP-08 page is displayed. Click on the GENERATE SIGNED  PDF OF FILED CMP 08 button to process the downloading of the filed Return.

 

 

26. Acknowledgement message will be displayed stating that the process may take upto 5 minutes to complete.  

 

 

Note: If you click on the GENERATE SIGNED  PDF OF FILED CMP 08 before the generation request is completed, following warning message will be displayed.

 

 

27. After completion of 5 minutes, click on the  button and then on the GENERATE SIGNED  PDF OF FILED CMP 08 to download Signed Form.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[42] Filing Form GST CMP-08 – Quarterly Statement for Payment of Self-assessed Tax by Composition Taxpayer (FY 2019-20 onwards) - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_CMP02.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Filing Form GST CMP-08
General
1. What is Form GST CMP-08?

Form GST CMP-08 is used to declare the details or summary of self-assessed tax which is payable for a given quarter by taxpayers who are registered as composition taxable person or taxpayer who have opted for composition levy.

2. Who needs to file Form GST CMP-08?

Taxpayers who either have registered as composition taxable person through Form GST REG-01 or taxpayers who have opted for composition levy through Form GST CMP-02, need to file Form GST CMP-08.

3. By when do I need to file Form GST CMP-08?

Form GST CMP-08 is to be filed on quarterly basis. The due date for filing Form GST CMP-08 is 18th of the month succeeding the quarter or as extended by Government through notification.

Pre-conditions of Filing Form GST CMP-08 
4. What are the pre-conditions for filing Form GST CMP-08?

Pre-conditions for filing of Form GST CMP-08 are:

1. Taxpayer must be registered as Composition Taxpayer or have opted for Composition scheme and should have an active GSTIN.

2. Taxpayer must have valid User ID and password.

3. Taxpayer must also have valid & non-expired/non-revoked digital signature (DSC), in case of taxpayer who wish to file it by digital signature.

4. Taxpayer must have filed all the applicable GST CMP-08 for the previous quarter(s).

Filing Nil Form GST CMP-08 
5. Can I file nil Form GST CMP-08?

Yes, you can file nil Form GST CMP-08 if you have no liability to discharge.

Filing Form GST CMP-08 
6. From where can I file Form GST CMP-08?

Form GST CMP-08 can be accessed on the GST Portal, post login in the Returns Dashboard by the composition taxpayer.

The path is Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard.

7. Is it mandatory to file Form GST CMP-08?

Filing of Form GST CMP-08 for applicable quarter is mandatory, even in cases, where there is no self-assessed liabilities.

8. Is there any Offline Tool for preparing Form GST CMP-08?

No, there is no offline tool for preparing Form GST CMP-08.

9. Is there any late fee in case of delayed filing of Form GST CMP-08?

No, there is no late fee for delayed filing of Form GST CMP-08.

10. Can I discharge my CMP-08 liabilities through Input Tax Credit (ITC)?

No, CMP-08 liabilities can be paid only through cash and not through ITC (as Composition taxpayer cannot claim ITC).

11. Do I need to file Form GST CMP-08 for all quarters?

GST CMP-08 is to be filed by composition taxpayer for all applicable quarters effective from 2019-20 i.e. 1st period would be Apr 2019-Jun 2019.

12. What should I do if my cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities?

If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then additional cash required to be paid by taxpayer is shown in the 'Additional Cash Required' column. You may create challan for the payment of this amount directly by clicking on the 'CREATE CHALLAN' button.

13. What is Negative Liability Adjustment?

Negative Liability Adjustment means that any negative entry done in the present quarter will be carried forward to the next quarter. This adjustment will be reflected in 'Adjustment of negative liability of previous tax period' column of Table 4 of the next quarter GST CMP-08 filing.

For e.g. for filing GST CMP-08 for quarter Apr-Jun 2019, negative values from last quarter Jan-Mar 2019 of GSTR-4 will be adjusted and shown in this column.

Previewing & Signing Form GST CMP-08
14. Can I preview Form GST CMP-08 before filing?

Yes, you can view/download the preview of Form GST CMP-08 by clicking on ‘Preview Draft GST CMP-08’ before filing on the GST Portal.

15. What are the modes of signing Form GST CMP-08?

You can file Form GST CMP-08 using DSC, EVC or STAK.

•    Digital Signature Certificate (DSC)- Digital Signature Certificates (DSC) are the digital equivalent (that is electronic format) of physical or paper certificates. A digital certificate can be presented electronically to prove one’s identity, to access information or services on the Internet or to sign certain documents digitally. In India, DSC are issued by authorized Certifying Authorities. The GST Portal accepts only PAN based Class III DSC. 

Note: If any class II DSC was issued till 31.12.2020, it will remain valid till its expiry date.

•    Electronic Verification Code (EVC)- The Electronic Verification Code (EVC) authenticates the identity of the user at the GST Portal by generating an OTP. The OTP is sent to the registered e mail ID and mobile phone number of Authorized Signatory registered on the GST portal.

•    “GST Secure OTP”- is a mobile application that a taxpayer has to install on their phone to generate STAK (Single time authentication key). To get registered, a valid phone number and PAN has to be entered in the app. The taxpayer can activate/deactivate STAK from the “My Profile” section of the GST portal. Once STAK has been activated, the verification number STAK  is generated on the “GST Secure OTP” mobile app which the user can provide while signing the Form GST CMP-08 .
Note: 
•    You can only use mobile number which is registered with the GST to activate the STAK.
•    All authorized signatories can use their registered mobile numbers to install and use the GST Secure OTP app.

16. I am getting an error “You have not filed last tax period’s return as a normal taxpayer” when I click on “PROCEED TO FILE” button. Why?

On clicking “PROCEED TO FILE” button, GST Portal will check if the last applicable return in Form GSTR-3B which has become due is filed or not. If the return in Form GSTR-3B has not yet been filed, you will get error message that “You have not filed last tax period’s return as a normal taxpayer. Please file the same before attempting to file statement in Form GST CMP-08.” 

 

For Example: Taxpayer opts for composition scheme w.e.f. 1st April 2021 and the first quarterly statement in Form GST CMP-08 becomes due for the quarter ending June 2021 on 18th July 2021. 
The taxpayer was a normal taxpayer till 31st March 2021 of the previous financial year and the return for the month/quarter ending March, 2020-21 in Form GSTR-3B had become due in April of the current financial year. In such cases, whenever the taxpayer attempts to file Form GST CMP-08 for the Apr-Jun quarter of 2021-22 tax period, GST Portal will check if Form GSTR-3B of period ending Mar’21 has been filed by the taxpayer or not and display an error message if it is yet to be filed.

17. On the Submit Application page FILE WITH STAK button is not enabled. How can I enable the FILE WITH STAK button?

You will have to activate STAK for your mobile number on GST portal. To activate navigate to My Profile > Activate/Deactivate STAK.

Note: If STAK is already activated on GST portal, then FILE WITH STAK button will be enabled.

Post Filing of Form GST CMP-08  
18. What happens after Form GST CMP-08 is filed?

After Form GST CMP-08 is filed:

1. ARN will be generated on successful filing of the Form.

2. Status of GST CMP-08 will be changed to ‘Filed’ from ‘Not filed’.

3. An SMS and email will be sent to the mobile number of the authorized signatory on the successful filing of Form GST CMP-08.

4. Electronic Cash Ledger and Electronic Liability Register Part-I will get updated after filing of Form GST CMP-08.

5. Negative liability adjustment table will be updated, if required.

19. I have filed Form GST CMP-08. Can I revise it now?

Form GST CMP-08 once filed, cannot be revised. 

20. How can I view and download Signed Form GST CMP-08?

After Form GST CMP-08 is filed, navigate to Services > Returns Dashboard. Fill in the Financial Year and Return Filing Period to view filed CMP-08 form and click on the Download button.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[43] Filing Form GST CMP-08 – Quarterly Statement for Payment of Self-assessed Tax by Composition Taxpayer (FY 2019-20 onwards) - Overview of Filing
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_SMS.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Filing Nil Form GST CMP-08 through SMS
About Nil Form CMP-08
1. When can Form CMP-08 be filed as Nil?

Form CMP-08 can be filed as a nil statement if there are no outward supplies, any liability due to reverse charge (including import of services) and any other tax liability for the quarter, for which the statement is being filed.

2. Is filing of Form CMP-08 as Nil statement mandatory?

Filing of Form CMP-08 is mandatory for all taxpayers who have opted to pay tax under composition scheme, even if there is no business activity in any particular tax period. So, for such tax period(s), the statement can be filed as NIL (if all conditions for filing Nil Form CMP-08 are satisfied).

3. From which date onwards can I file Nil Form CMP-08 for a tax period?

You can file Nil Form CMP-08 on quarterly basis and its due date is 18th of the month succeeding the quarter. For example, Nil Form CMP-08 for the quarter of July to September can be filed from 1st October onwards.

About Filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS
4. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, instead of filing online through GST Portal?

Yes, you can file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, instead of filing it through online mode on GST Portal.

5. Who is eligible to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

Any taxpayer who fulfills below conditions, are eligible to file Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS:

• Taxpayers must be registered as composition taxable person through Form GST REG-01 or taxpayers who have opted for composition levy through Form GST CMP-02.

• Taxpayer must have filed all the applicable GST CMP-08 for the previous quarter(s)

• Authorized signatory and his/ her phone number must be registered on the GST Portal.

• There must not be any data in save stage in online version of Form CMP-08, on the GST Portal.

6. Who is authorized to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, on behalf of the taxpayer?

All the authorized representatives, for a particular GSTIN, are allowed to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

Note:

If more than one Authorized Signatories/ Representatives have the same mobile number registered on the GST Portal, such Authorized Signatories cannot file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. In such scenario, Authorized Signatory first need to update their mobile number on the GST Portal, through non-core amendment process, by giving unique mobile number for every authorized signatory for that requested GSTIN.

Any Authorized Signatory/ Representative with unique mobile number registered on the GST Portal, can file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

7. I am an Authorized Signatory and my mobile number has been registered for more than one GSTIN. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS for all these GSTINs?

Yes, you can file Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS for all GSTINs, for whom you are an Authorized Signatory, from the same mobile number.

8. My Authorized Signatories have been reset by the Tax Official. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

In case, your Authorized Signatories have been reset by the Tax Official, you need to first reactivate your User ID by navigating to GST Portal > Login > here link. Click here to know more about it.

Post reactivating your User ID, you can file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

Help SMS Format
9. How do I get help on Nil Form CMP-08 filing through SMS?

You need to send SMS in below format to get help related to filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS to 14409:

SMS Format: HELP space<Return Type>

Example: HELP C8

 

 Filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS
10. How can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

To file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, follow the below mentioned steps:

Let's take an example that contains steps for filing Nil Form CMP-08 for quarter April to June 2020 for the same GSTIN (08ACQPG4437PKZE) for user information.

 

S.No.

	

Step-List

	

SMS Format

	

Example

1.	

Send SMS to 14409 number to file Nil Form CMP-08.

	

NIL space<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period>

	

For Quarterly Filing of Nil Form CMP-08 for Tax Period Apr-Jun 2020:

NIL C8 08ACQPG4437PKZE 062020

2.	

After receiving the SMS, GST Portal will check for the validations.

Note:

 If validations for filing Nil Form CMP-08 are satisfied, you will receive a “Verification CODE” on the same mobile number from which you have sent the SMS to complete the filing process.

If validations for Nil filing are not satisfied, you will receive appropriate response/ error message on the same mobile number from which you have sent the SMS.

Note: Verification Code is usable only once and will expire within 30 minutes. Please do not share it with anyone.

3.	

Send SMS again on the same number 14409 with Verification Code (For Example: Verification Code received here is 122058) to confirm filing of Nil Form CMP-08.

Note: Taxpayers are required to compose a new text message to send it to 14409.

	

CNF space<Return Type>space<Code>

	

CNF C8 122058

4	

After successful validation of “Verification Code", GST Portal will send back ARN to same mobile number and on registered e-mail ID of the taxpayer to intimate successful Nil filing of Form CMP-08.

 

The above is illustrated as texts images as given below:

 

11. I have saved my data/summary for a particular return period on the GST Portal. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS for that period?

You cannot file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, for the tax period, for which you have saved data/summary on the GST Portal. If you have some saved data in your Form CMP-08 on GST Portal, you need to either file your Form CMP-08 through online mode on GST Portal or delete the saved data from the portal and then file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

12. Is there any difference in filing Nil Form GSTR-1, GSTR-3B and CMP-08 through SMS?

There is no difference in filing Nil Form GSTR-1, GSTR-3B and CMP-08 through SMS except the return type format.

Return type format for Form GSTR-1 is R1, for Form GSTR-3B is 3B and for Form CMP-08 is C8, as given in table below:

 

Send SMS to 14409 for

	

Filing Form GSTR-1

	

Filing Form GSTR-3B

	

Filing Form CMP-08

Getting Help Assistance

	

Help R1

	

Help 3B

	

Help C8

Filing Nil Return

	

Monthly Filing - NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 042020

Quarterly Filing - NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 062020

	

NIL 3B 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 042020

 

	

NIL C8 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 062020

Sending Verification Code

	

CNF R1 324961

	

CNF 3B 324961

	

CNF C8 324961

 

For help on filing Nil Form GSTR-3B by SMS, click here.

For help on filing Nil Form GSTR-1 by SMS, click here.

Verification Code
13. What is the validity of Verification Code?

Verification Code is valid for 30 minutes.

14. Verification Code consists of how many digits?

Verification Code consists of 6 numeric digits only.

15. Can I use Verification Code multiple times?

No, Verification Code is usable only once.

16. Is SMS text case sensitive, in case of filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

No, SMS text is not case sensitive.

17. I have received a message that my mobile number has been blocked for 24 hours. Why?

In case, incorrect Verification Code is provided more than three times during a day, the GSTIN and Mobile number combination for that particular day, will be blocked for filing of Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. You can try filing Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS, after 24 hours.

 

However, you can login to the GST Portal to continue filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through online mode. You can file Nil Form CMP-08 for another GSTIN, if you have authorized signatory for those GSTINs.

18. I have sent correct Verification Code, but I have received SMS that the code is not valid. Why?

It is possible that your Verification Code has expired. You can send SMS again, in the desired format, to receive a new Verification Code. To send SMS again please wait for at least 5 minutes after generating of any new Verification Code.

Note: When you generate fresh Verification Code, previous Verification Code becomes invalid. In such case, you will have to provide new Verification Code to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

Post Filing of Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS
19. What will happen after successful filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS?

After successful filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS:

ARN will get generated.

The status of Form CMP-08 will change to Filed on GST Portal.

An SMS and e-mail will be sent to the e-mail and mobile number of the primary authorized signatory.

In case, sender is an authorized signatory but not the primary authorized signatory, SMS will be sent to his/her mobile number also.

20. I have filed Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. Do I need to login again to the GST Portal to file Nil Form CMP-08?

Once you have filed Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, you do not need to login to the GST Portal again to file Nil Form CMP-08. After successful filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS, the status of Form CMP-08 is changed to Filed on GST Portal.

21. I have filed Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. Can I revise the filed statement for the requested tax period?

No, you cannot revise filed Nil Form CMP-08, for the requested tax period, after filing it through SMS.

22. From where can I track the status of my filed Form CMP-08 statement?

Navigate to Services > Returns > Track Return Status option to track the status of your filed Form CMP-08 statement on the GST Portal.

 

Click here to go to Troubleshooting Errors

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[44] Filing Form GST CMP-08 – Quarterly Statement for Payment of Self-assessed Tax by Composition Taxpayer (FY 2019-20 onwards) - Troubleshooting Errors
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=errors_cmp08.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Filing Nil Form GST CMP-08 through SMS
About Nil Form CMP-08
1. When can Form CMP-08 be filed as Nil?

Form CMP-08 can be filed as a nil statement if there are no outward supplies, any liability due to reverse charge (including import of services) and any other tax liability for the quarter, for which the statement is being filed.

2. Is filing of Form CMP-08 as Nil statement mandatory?

Filing of Form CMP-08 is mandatory for all taxpayers who have opted to pay tax under composition scheme, even if there is no business activity in any particular tax period. So, for such tax period(s), the statement can be filed as NIL (if all conditions for filing Nil Form CMP-08 are satisfied).

3. From which date onwards can I file Nil Form CMP-08 for a tax period?

You can file Nil Form CMP-08 on quarterly basis and its due date is 18th of the month succeeding the quarter. For example, Nil Form CMP-08 for the quarter of July to September can be filed from 1st October onwards.

About Filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS
4. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, instead of filing online through GST Portal?

Yes, you can file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, instead of filing it through online mode on GST Portal.

5. Who is eligible to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

Any taxpayer who fulfills below conditions, are eligible to file Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS:

• Taxpayers must be registered as composition taxable person through Form GST REG-01 or taxpayers who have opted for composition levy through Form GST CMP-02.

• Taxpayer must have filed all the applicable GST CMP-08 for the previous quarter(s)

• Authorized signatory and his/ her phone number must be registered on the GST Portal.

• There must not be any data in save stage in online version of Form CMP-08, on the GST Portal.

6. Who is authorized to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, on behalf of the taxpayer?

All the authorized representatives, for a particular GSTIN, are allowed to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

Note:

If more than one Authorized Signatories/ Representatives have the same mobile number registered on the GST Portal, such Authorized Signatories cannot file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. In such scenario, Authorized Signatory first need to update their mobile number on the GST Portal, through non-core amendment process, by giving unique mobile number for every authorized signatory for that requested GSTIN.

Any Authorized Signatory/ Representative with unique mobile number registered on the GST Portal, can file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

7. I am an Authorized Signatory and my mobile number has been registered for more than one GSTIN. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS for all these GSTINs?

Yes, you can file Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS for all GSTINs, for whom you are an Authorized Signatory, from the same mobile number.

8. My Authorized Signatories have been reset by the Tax Official. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

In case, your Authorized Signatories have been reset by the Tax Official, you need to first reactivate your User ID by navigating to GST Portal > Login > here link. Click here to know more about it.

Post reactivating your User ID, you can file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

Help SMS Format
9. How do I get help on Nil Form CMP-08 filing through SMS?

You need to send SMS in below format to get help related to filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS to 14409:

SMS Format: HELP space<Return Type>

Example: HELP C8

 

 Filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS
10. How can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

To file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, follow the below mentioned steps:

Let's take an example that contains steps for filing Nil Form CMP-08 for quarter April to June 2020 for the same GSTIN (08ACQPG4437PKZE) for user information.

 

S.No.

	

Step-List

	

SMS Format

	

Example

1.	

Send SMS to 14409 number to file Nil Form CMP-08.

	

NIL space<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period>

	

For Quarterly Filing of Nil Form CMP-08 for Tax Period Apr-Jun 2020:

NIL C8 08ACQPG4437PKZE 062020

2.	

After receiving the SMS, GST Portal will check for the validations.

Note:

 If validations for filing Nil Form CMP-08 are satisfied, you will receive a “Verification CODE” on the same mobile number from which you have sent the SMS to complete the filing process.

If validations for Nil filing are not satisfied, you will receive appropriate response/ error message on the same mobile number from which you have sent the SMS.

Note: Verification Code is usable only once and will expire within 30 minutes. Please do not share it with anyone.

3.	

Send SMS again on the same number 14409 with Verification Code (For Example: Verification Code received here is 122058) to confirm filing of Nil Form CMP-08.

Note: Taxpayers are required to compose a new text message to send it to 14409.

	

CNF space<Return Type>space<Code>

	

CNF C8 122058

4	

After successful validation of “Verification Code", GST Portal will send back ARN to same mobile number and on registered e-mail ID of the taxpayer to intimate successful Nil filing of Form CMP-08.

 

The above is illustrated as texts images as given below:

 

11. I have saved my data/summary for a particular return period on the GST Portal. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS for that period?

You cannot file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, for the tax period, for which you have saved data/summary on the GST Portal. If you have some saved data in your Form CMP-08 on GST Portal, you need to either file your Form CMP-08 through online mode on GST Portal or delete the saved data from the portal and then file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

12. Is there any difference in filing Nil Form GSTR-1, GSTR-3B and CMP-08 through SMS?

There is no difference in filing Nil Form GSTR-1, GSTR-3B and CMP-08 through SMS except the return type format.

Return type format for Form GSTR-1 is R1, for Form GSTR-3B is 3B and for Form CMP-08 is C8, as given in table below:

 

Send SMS to 14409 for

	

Filing Form GSTR-1

	

Filing Form GSTR-3B

	

Filing Form CMP-08

Getting Help Assistance

	

Help R1

	

Help 3B

	

Help C8

Filing Nil Return

	

Monthly Filing - NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 042020

Quarterly Filing - NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 062020

	

NIL 3B 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 042020

 

	

NIL C8 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 062020

Sending Verification Code

	

CNF R1 324961

	

CNF 3B 324961

	

CNF C8 324961

 

For help on filing Nil Form GSTR-3B by SMS, click here.

For help on filing Nil Form GSTR-1 by SMS, click here.

Verification Code
13. What is the validity of Verification Code?

Verification Code is valid for 30 minutes.

14. Verification Code consists of how many digits?

Verification Code consists of 6 numeric digits only.

15. Can I use Verification Code multiple times?

No, Verification Code is usable only once.

16. Is SMS text case sensitive, in case of filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

No, SMS text is not case sensitive.

17. I have received a message that my mobile number has been blocked for 24 hours. Why?

In case, incorrect Verification Code is provided more than three times during a day, the GSTIN and Mobile number combination for that particular day, will be blocked for filing of Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. You can try filing Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS, after 24 hours.

 

However, you can login to the GST Portal to continue filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through online mode. You can file Nil Form CMP-08 for another GSTIN, if you have authorized signatory for those GSTINs.

18. I have sent correct Verification Code, but I have received SMS that the code is not valid. Why?

It is possible that your Verification Code has expired. You can send SMS again, in the desired format, to receive a new Verification Code. To send SMS again please wait for at least 5 minutes after generating of any new Verification Code.

Note: When you generate fresh Verification Code, previous Verification Code becomes invalid. In such case, you will have to provide new Verification Code to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

Post Filing of Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS
19. What will happen after successful filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS?

After successful filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS:

ARN will get generated.

The status of Form CMP-08 will change to Filed on GST Portal.

An SMS and e-mail will be sent to the e-mail and mobile number of the primary authorized signatory.

In case, sender is an authorized signatory but not the primary authorized signatory, SMS will be sent to his/her mobile number also.

20. I have filed Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. Do I need to login again to the GST Portal to file Nil Form CMP-08?

Once you have filed Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, you do not need to login to the GST Portal again to file Nil Form CMP-08. After successful filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS, the status of Form CMP-08 is changed to Filed on GST Portal.

21. I have filed Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. Can I revise the filed statement for the requested tax period?

No, you cannot revise filed Nil Form CMP-08, for the requested tax period, after filing it through SMS.

22. From where can I track the status of my filed Form CMP-08 statement?

Navigate to Services > Returns > Track Return Status option to track the status of your filed Form CMP-08 statement on the GST Portal.

 

Click here to go to Troubleshooting Errors

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[45] Filing Form GST CMP-08 – Quarterly Statement for Payment of Self-assessed Tax by Composition Taxpayer (FY 2019-20 onwards) - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_GSTR4.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Filing Nil Form GST CMP-08 through SMS
About Nil Form CMP-08
1. When can Form CMP-08 be filed as Nil?

Form CMP-08 can be filed as a nil statement if there are no outward supplies, any liability due to reverse charge (including import of services) and any other tax liability for the quarter, for which the statement is being filed.

2. Is filing of Form CMP-08 as Nil statement mandatory?

Filing of Form CMP-08 is mandatory for all taxpayers who have opted to pay tax under composition scheme, even if there is no business activity in any particular tax period. So, for such tax period(s), the statement can be filed as NIL (if all conditions for filing Nil Form CMP-08 are satisfied).

3. From which date onwards can I file Nil Form CMP-08 for a tax period?

You can file Nil Form CMP-08 on quarterly basis and its due date is 18th of the month succeeding the quarter. For example, Nil Form CMP-08 for the quarter of July to September can be filed from 1st October onwards.

About Filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS
4. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, instead of filing online through GST Portal?

Yes, you can file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, instead of filing it through online mode on GST Portal.

5. Who is eligible to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

Any taxpayer who fulfills below conditions, are eligible to file Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS:

• Taxpayers must be registered as composition taxable person through Form GST REG-01 or taxpayers who have opted for composition levy through Form GST CMP-02.

• Taxpayer must have filed all the applicable GST CMP-08 for the previous quarter(s)

• Authorized signatory and his/ her phone number must be registered on the GST Portal.

• There must not be any data in save stage in online version of Form CMP-08, on the GST Portal.

6. Who is authorized to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, on behalf of the taxpayer?

All the authorized representatives, for a particular GSTIN, are allowed to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

Note:

If more than one Authorized Signatories/ Representatives have the same mobile number registered on the GST Portal, such Authorized Signatories cannot file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. In such scenario, Authorized Signatory first need to update their mobile number on the GST Portal, through non-core amendment process, by giving unique mobile number for every authorized signatory for that requested GSTIN.

Any Authorized Signatory/ Representative with unique mobile number registered on the GST Portal, can file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

7. I am an Authorized Signatory and my mobile number has been registered for more than one GSTIN. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS for all these GSTINs?

Yes, you can file Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS for all GSTINs, for whom you are an Authorized Signatory, from the same mobile number.

8. My Authorized Signatories have been reset by the Tax Official. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

In case, your Authorized Signatories have been reset by the Tax Official, you need to first reactivate your User ID by navigating to GST Portal > Login > here link. Click here to know more about it.

Post reactivating your User ID, you can file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

Help SMS Format
9. How do I get help on Nil Form CMP-08 filing through SMS?

You need to send SMS in below format to get help related to filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS to 14409:

SMS Format: HELP space<Return Type>

Example: HELP C8

 

 Filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS
10. How can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

To file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, follow the below mentioned steps:

Let's take an example that contains steps for filing Nil Form CMP-08 for quarter April to June 2020 for the same GSTIN (08ACQPG4437PKZE) for user information.

 

S.No.

	

Step-List

	

SMS Format

	

Example

1.	

Send SMS to 14409 number to file Nil Form CMP-08.

	

NIL space<Return Type>space<GSTIN>space<Return Period>

	

For Quarterly Filing of Nil Form CMP-08 for Tax Period Apr-Jun 2020:

NIL C8 08ACQPG4437PKZE 062020

2.	

After receiving the SMS, GST Portal will check for the validations.

Note:

 If validations for filing Nil Form CMP-08 are satisfied, you will receive a “Verification CODE” on the same mobile number from which you have sent the SMS to complete the filing process.

If validations for Nil filing are not satisfied, you will receive appropriate response/ error message on the same mobile number from which you have sent the SMS.

Note: Verification Code is usable only once and will expire within 30 minutes. Please do not share it with anyone.

3.	

Send SMS again on the same number 14409 with Verification Code (For Example: Verification Code received here is 122058) to confirm filing of Nil Form CMP-08.

Note: Taxpayers are required to compose a new text message to send it to 14409.

	

CNF space<Return Type>space<Code>

	

CNF C8 122058

4	

After successful validation of “Verification Code", GST Portal will send back ARN to same mobile number and on registered e-mail ID of the taxpayer to intimate successful Nil filing of Form CMP-08.

 

The above is illustrated as texts images as given below:

 

11. I have saved my data/summary for a particular return period on the GST Portal. Can I file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS for that period?

You cannot file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, for the tax period, for which you have saved data/summary on the GST Portal. If you have some saved data in your Form CMP-08 on GST Portal, you need to either file your Form CMP-08 through online mode on GST Portal or delete the saved data from the portal and then file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

12. Is there any difference in filing Nil Form GSTR-1, GSTR-3B and CMP-08 through SMS?

There is no difference in filing Nil Form GSTR-1, GSTR-3B and CMP-08 through SMS except the return type format.

Return type format for Form GSTR-1 is R1, for Form GSTR-3B is 3B and for Form CMP-08 is C8, as given in table below:

 

Send SMS to 14409 for

	

Filing Form GSTR-1

	

Filing Form GSTR-3B

	

Filing Form CMP-08

Getting Help Assistance

	

Help R1

	

Help 3B

	

Help C8

Filing Nil Return

	

Monthly Filing - NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 042020

Quarterly Filing - NIL R1 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 062020

	

NIL 3B 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 042020

 

	

NIL C8 07AQDPP8277H8Z6 062020

Sending Verification Code

	

CNF R1 324961

	

CNF 3B 324961

	

CNF C8 324961

 

For help on filing Nil Form GSTR-3B by SMS, click here.

For help on filing Nil Form GSTR-1 by SMS, click here.

Verification Code
13. What is the validity of Verification Code?

Verification Code is valid for 30 minutes.

14. Verification Code consists of how many digits?

Verification Code consists of 6 numeric digits only.

15. Can I use Verification Code multiple times?

No, Verification Code is usable only once.

16. Is SMS text case sensitive, in case of filing Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS?

No, SMS text is not case sensitive.

17. I have received a message that my mobile number has been blocked for 24 hours. Why?

In case, incorrect Verification Code is provided more than three times during a day, the GSTIN and Mobile number combination for that particular day, will be blocked for filing of Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. You can try filing Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS, after 24 hours.

 

However, you can login to the GST Portal to continue filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through online mode. You can file Nil Form CMP-08 for another GSTIN, if you have authorized signatory for those GSTINs.

18. I have sent correct Verification Code, but I have received SMS that the code is not valid. Why?

It is possible that your Verification Code has expired. You can send SMS again, in the desired format, to receive a new Verification Code. To send SMS again please wait for at least 5 minutes after generating of any new Verification Code.

Note: When you generate fresh Verification Code, previous Verification Code becomes invalid. In such case, you will have to provide new Verification Code to file Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS.

Post Filing of Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS
19. What will happen after successful filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS?

After successful filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS:

ARN will get generated.

The status of Form CMP-08 will change to Filed on GST Portal.

An SMS and e-mail will be sent to the e-mail and mobile number of the primary authorized signatory.

In case, sender is an authorized signatory but not the primary authorized signatory, SMS will be sent to his/her mobile number also.

20. I have filed Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. Do I need to login again to the GST Portal to file Nil Form CMP-08?

Once you have filed Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS, you do not need to login to the GST Portal again to file Nil Form CMP-08. After successful filing of Nil Form CMP-08, through SMS, the status of Form CMP-08 is changed to Filed on GST Portal.

21. I have filed Nil Form CMP-08 through SMS. Can I revise the filed statement for the requested tax period?

No, you cannot revise filed Nil Form CMP-08, for the requested tax period, after filing it through SMS.

22. From where can I track the status of my filed Form CMP-08 statement?

Navigate to Services > Returns > Track Return Status option to track the status of your filed Form CMP-08 statement on the GST Portal.

 

Click here to go to Troubleshooting Errors

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[46] Filing Form GST CMP-08 – Quarterly Statement for Payment of Self-assessed Tax by Composition Taxpayer (FY 2019-20 onwards) - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_GSTR4.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Form GSTR-4 - Quarterly Return (Till FY 2018-19)
1. What is Form GSTR-4?

Form GSTR-4 is to be filed by taxpayers to provide summary of outward supplies, tax payable thereon etc. Such taxpayers are also required to report summary of import of services and supplies attracting reverse charge. Form GSTR-4 is to be filed by taxpayers who have opted for composition scheme.

2. Who needs to file Form GSTR-4?

Taxpayer who have opted for composition scheme from the date of grant of registration or normal taxpayer who have opted into composition scheme, after obtaining registration or are availing composition scheme as notified by Government are required to file Form GSTR-4.

3. By when do I need to file Form GSTR-4?

Form GSTR-4 is to be filed on yearly basis. The due date for filing Form GSTR-4 is 30th of the month succeeding the financial year or as extended by Government from time to time.

4. From where can I file Form GSTR-4?

Form GSTR-4 can be accessed on the GST Portal, post login in the Returns Dashboard by the composition taxpayer.

The path is Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard.

5. Is it mandatory to file Form GSTR-4?

Yes, it is mandatory to file Form GSTR-4, in case you have opted for composition scheme.

6. Can I file nil return in Form GSTR-4?

Yes, you can file nil return in Form GSTR-4.

7. Is there any Offline Tool for preparing Form GSTR-4?

Yes, there is an offline tool for preparing Form GSTR-4.

Click here to know more about Offline Tool for preparing Form GSTR-4.

8. What are the pre-conditions for filing Form GSTR-4?

Pre-conditions for filing of Form GSTR-4 are:

1. Taxpayer must be registered as Composition Taxpayer or have opted for Composition scheme or are availing composition scheme as notified by Government and must have an active GSTIN.

2. Taxpayer must have valid User ID and password.

3. Taxpayer must also have valid & non-expired/non-revoked digital signature (DSC), in case taxpayer wishes to file their forms/returns etc. using digital signature.

9. Form GSTR-4 comprises of which tables?

Form GSTR-4 comprises of following tables:

 

4A, 4B. Inward Supplies (Registered): To add details of inward supplies received from a registered supplier (with or without reverse charge)

4C. Inward supplies (Unregistered): To add details of inward supplies received from an unregistered supplier

4D. Import of Service: To add details of import of service

5A, 5B. Amendment of Inward supplies (Registered): To add amendment details of inward supplies received from a registered supplier (with or without reverse charge)

5A. Amendment of Inward supplies (Unregistered): To add amendment details of inward supplies received from an unregistered supplier

5A. Amendment of Import of services: To add amendment details of import of service.

5B. Debit/Credit Notes (Registered): To add details of credit or debit notes received from the registered recipients.

5B. Debit/Credit Notes (Unregistered): To add details of credit or debit notes received from the unregistered recipients.

5C. Amendment Debit/Credit Notes (Registered): To add amendment details of credit or debit notes received from the registered recipients.

5C. Amendment Debit/Credit Notes (Unregistered): To add amendment details of credit or debit notes received from the unregistered recipients.

6. Tax on Outward Supplies: To add details of tax on outward supplies made (Net of advance and goods returned).

7. Amendment of Tax on Outward Supplies: To add amendment details of tax on outward supplies made (Net of advance and goods returned).

8A. Advance amount paid: To add details of advance amount paid for reverse charge supplies in the tax period.

8B. Adjustment of Advances paid: To add details of advance amount on which tax was paid in earlier period but invoice has been received in the current period.

8A-II. Amendment of Tax Liability: To add details of amendment of advance amount paid for reverse charge supplies in the tax period.

8B-II. Amendment of Adjustment of advances: To add amendment details of advance amount on which tax was paid in earlier period but invoice has been received in the current period.

10 & 11. Tax, Interest, Late fee payable and paid: Auto calculated on GST portal on clicking ‘Proceed to File’.

10. Is the amount in tax fields auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields?

The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. The CESS field is not auto populated and has to be entered by the taxpayer.

11. When can summary displayed for amendments table be negative in Form GSTR-4 dashboard?

The summary displayed for amendments table can have negative values, in case of downward amendment, as the values displayed are net of (Amended values - Original value).

12. Is there any late fee in case of delayed filing of Form GSTR-4?

Yes, there is a late fee prescribed in Law.

13. Is there any questionnaire available to select only the relevant table?

Yes, questionnaire is available to select only relevant tables in which details are required to be provided.

14. How can I discharge my tax, interest and late fee liabilities?

Tax, interest and late fee liabilities can be discharged through Electronic Cash Ledger only.

15. How can I offset my liabilities?

You can offset the liabilities by clicking the 10 & 11. Tax, Interest, Late fee payable and paid tile.

If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then a part payment of liability can be made from available balance of the Electronic Cash Ledger. You may directly create challan for payment of remaining part of liability, by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash payment is required for offsetting liability.

16. What happens after Form GSTR-4 is filed?

After Form GSTR-4 is filed:

1. ARN will be generated on successful filing of the Form.

2. An SMS and email will be sent to the mobile number of the authorized signatory on the successful filing of Form GSTR-4.

3. Electronic Cash Ledger and Electronic Liability Register Part-I will get updated.

4. The return is made available on the dashboard of tax official.

17. Can I preview Form GSTR-4 before filing?

Yes, you can view/download the preview of Form GSTR-4 by clicking on ‘Preview GSTR-4’ before filing on the GST Portal.

18. What are the modes of signing Form GSTR-4?

You can file Form GSTR-4 using DSC or EVC.

 

Digital Signature Certificate (DSC)

Digital Signature Certificates (DSC) are the digital equivalent (that is electronic format) of physical or paper certificates. A digital certificate can be presented electronically to prove one’s identity, to access information or services on the Internet or to sign certain documents digitally. In India, DSC are issued by authorized Certifying Authorities.

The GST Portal accepts only PAN based Class II and III DSC.

 

Electronic Verification Code (EVC)

The Electronic Verification Code (EVC) authenticates the identity of the user at the GST Portal by generating an OTP. The OTP is sent to the mobile phone number of the registered mobile phone of Authorized Signatory filled in part A of the Registration Application.

19. Can the due date of filing of Form GSTR-4 be extended?

Yes, due date of filing of Form GSTR-4 can be extended by Government through notification.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[47] Filing Form GST CMP-08 – Quarterly Statement for Payment of Self-assessed Tax by Composition Taxpayer (FY 2019-20 onwards) - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/gstr4annual

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Filing Form GSTR-4 - Return for Financial Year by Composition Taxpayer (FY 2019-20 Onwards)
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[48] Filing Form GST CMP-08 – Quarterly Statement for Payment of Self-assessed Tax by Composition Taxpayer (FY 2019-20 onwards) - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=manual_GSTR4annual.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Filing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) (From FY 2019-20 Onwards)
How can I create and file details in Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) (For FY 2019-20 Onwards)?

To create and file details in Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return, For FY 2019-20 Onwards), perform following steps:

 

(I) In case, you want to file NIL return in Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return), click here.

 

(II) In case, you want to file return in Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return), perform following steps:

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) page

B. Enter details in various tiles

C. Preview Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)

D: Payment of Tax

E. File Annual Return Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) with DSC/ EVC

A. Login and Navigate to Annual Return Form GSTR-4 page

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Annual Return option.

Note: Alternatively, you can also click the Annual Return link on the Dashboard.

 

 

2. The File Annual Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year for which you want to file the annual return from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

3. The File Returns page is displayed. Please read the important message in the boxes carefully. In the Annual Return GSTR-4 tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button.

Note: PREPARE ONLINE button for filing Form GSTR-4 will be enabled only after filing all applicable Form CMP-08 statements for the relevant Financial Year.

 

 

4. The GSTR-4 Annual Return page is displayed. Enter the aggregate turnover of previous financial year and click SAVE.

Note:

You will not be able to proceed further without entering aggregate turnover of previous financial year.

In case, you were registered during the current FY or had nil aggregate turnover, please enter '0' (Zero) here.

On saving aggregate turnover details, other buttons on this screen will get enabled.

 

 

Note 2: From financial year 2024-25 onwards, the values from GSTR-1A shall also be auto drafted in table 4A,4B of GSTR-4 annual form.

 

Note 3: From financial year 2024-25 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 4: You can click the Help link to view Help related to this page.

 

 

Note 5: From financial year 2024-25 onwards, following Help screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

5. A confirmation message is displayed that Save request has been acknowledged.

 

 

6 (a) To file Nil return: Nil Form GSTR-4 Annual Return can be filed by you, for the financial year, if you have, for all applicable quarters of the year

NOT made any outward supply

NOT received any goods/services

Have NO other tax liability to report

Have filed all Form CMP-08 as Nil 

 

6.1. Select the File Nil GSTR4 check-box. Click PROCEED TO FILE. 

 

 

6.2. Return is ready to be filed. Click PROCEED TO FILE.

 

 

6.3. Click on the CONTINUE button. 

 

 

Note: From financial year 2024-25 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

6.4. Preview Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)

6.5. Payment of Tax

Note:

If there are any interest liability to be declared, the same can be declared in “Interest payable” column.

If Nil Form GSTR-4 is not filed by the due date, GST Portal will calculate the late fee as per the prescribed law and show the same in “Late Fee Payable” column.

“Additional Cash Required” column reflects the cash required to be paid through challan for payment of interest and late fee, after adjusting the amount available in Electronic Cash Ledger.

 

6.6. File Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) with DSC/ EVC

 

Click here to go back to the main menu

 

6 (b) To file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return):

B. Enter details in various tiles

4A. Inward supplies from registered supplier (other than reverse charge): TTo add details of inward supplies received from a registered supplier/e-commerce operator (other than reverse charge)

4B. Inward supplies from registered supplier (reverse charge): To add details of inward supplies received from a registered supplier (reverse charge)

4C. Inward supplies from unregistered supplier: To add details of inward supplies received from an unregistered supplier

4D. Import of Service: To add details of import of service

6. Tax rate wise inward and outward supplies: To enter tax rate wise details of outward supplies during the financial year

 

To view auto-drafted details:

 

5. Summary of CMP-08: To view auto-drafted details provided in filed Form CMP-08 for the financial year

7. TDS/TCS credit received: To view details related to TDS/TCS credit received

 

Click on the tile names to know more and enter related details:

4A. Inward supplies from registered supplier (other than reverse charge)

6.1. To add details of inward supplies received from a registered supplier (other than reverse charge), select 4A. Inward supplies from registered supplier (other than reverse charge) from the "Select tables to add/view details" drop-down list.

 

 

Note: From financial year 2024-25 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

6.2. In the Supplier/ECO GSTIN field, enter the GSTIN of the supplier/eco. Once the GSTIN of the supplier/eco is entered, Trade/Legal Name field is auto-populated based on the GSTIN of the supplier. Click on the Add (+) button.

Note:

Inward supplies attracting reverse charge, are not to be provided in table 4A and the same are required be provided in table 4B.

The place of Supply for the recipient is shown as the State/UT in which the recipient is registered, by default and cannot be edited.

If the Place of Supply is other than the composition taxpayer’s State, the purchase entry will not be auto populated.

 

 

Note: From financial year 2024-25 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

 

6.3. On clicking the Add (+) button, the Item Details fields get displayed. Enter the item details of the document and click the Add (+) button to add more rows. Once all the details are entered, click on the SAVE button.

Note:

You must provide tax rate wise details related to one Supplier GSTIN.

In case the supplies are received from a composition taxpayer, the tax rate should be selected as ‘0’ (Zero) from the Rate drop-down list.

The tax amounts are auto calculated on the basis of values entered in Taxable Value and selected tax rate. These fields are editable. The CESS amount has to be manually entered.

 

 

Note 1: From financial year 2024-25 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

 

Note 2: New 6% rate will be visible in the Rate (%) dropdown list from the financial year 2022–23 and onwards.

 

 

 

6.4. Once the details are saved, a success message gets displayed. The details of the document are validated by the GST Portal and are added to the Pending Records table till the validation is completed. Post successful validation, the document gets added to the Processed records (Validated successfully) section of this page. You may refresh the page to see the most updated status of documents. In case, the documents are processed with error, it would be available in ‘Pending Records’ table with status as ‘Processed with error’. You may click edit to see the error and correct the same.

 

 

Note 1:

To edit or delete the added details, click the Edit/Delete icons under the Action column.

To search in the list of added records, enter the relevant text/value in the Search field.

To view records per page, select the required number of records from the Records Per Page drop-down list.

To download the added details in the CSV format, click the Download CSV link.

 

 

Note 2: From financial year 2024-25 onwards following screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 3: Similarly, you can enter other details for the table.

 

 

Click here to go back to the main menu

4B. Inward supplies from registered supplier (reverse charge)

6.1. To add details of inward supplies received from a registered supplier (reverse charge), select 4B. Inward supplies from registered supplier (reverse charge) from the "Select tables to add/view details" drop-down list.

 

 

6.2. In the Supplier GSTIN field, enter the GSTIN of the supplier. Once the GSTIN of the supplier is entered, Trade/Legal Name fields are auto-populated based on the GSTIN of the supplier. Click on the Add (+) button.

 

Note: Inward supplies other than those attracting reverse charge, are not to be provided in table 4B and the same needs be provided in table 4A

 

 

6.3. On clicking the Add (+) button, the Item Details fields get displayed. Enter the item details of the document and click on the Add (+) button to add more rows. Once all the details are entered, click on the SAVE button. 

Note:

You can enter negative values here to enter details related to Net of advances, credit and debit notes or any other adjustment due to amendments.

The tax amounts are auto-calculated on the basis of values entered in Taxable Value and tax rate fields but are editable. The CESS amount has to be entered by the taxpayer manually.

 

 

Note: New 6% rate will be visible in the Rate (%) dropdown list from the financial year 2022–23 and onwards.

 

 

6.4. Once the details are saved, a success message gets displayed. The details of the document are validated by the GST Portal and are added to the Pending Records table till the validation is completed. Post successful validation, the document gets added to the Processed records (Validated successfully) section of this page. You may refresh the page to see the most updated status of documents. In case, the documents are processed with error, it would be available in ‘Pending Records’ table with status as ‘Processed with error’. You may click on the Edit button to see the error and correct the same.

 

Note:

To edit or delete the added details, click on the Edit/Delete icons under the Action column.

To search in the list of added records, enter the relevant text/value in the Search field.

To view records per page, select the required number of records from the Records Per Page drop-down list.

To download the added details in the CSV format, click on the Download CSV link.

 

 

Note: Similarly, you can enter other details for the table.

 

 

Click here to go back to the main menu

4C. Inward supplies from unregistered supplier

6.1. To add details of inward supplies received from an unregistered supplier, select 4C. Inward supplies from unregistered supplier from the "Select tables to add/view details" drop-down list.

 

 

6.2. Select the checkbox for Reverse Charge, if applicable. In the Supplier PAN field enter the PAN of the supplier, if any. Enter the Trade/Legal Name of the supplier. In case of supplies liable to reverse charge, select the Supply Type from the drop-down list. Click on the Add (+) button.

Note: The record can also be added without providing the PAN details, if same is not available.

 

Note: The record can also be added without providing the PAN details, if same is not available.

 

 

6.3. On clicking the Add (+) button, the Item Details fields get displayed. Enter the item details of the document and click on the Add (+) button to add more rows. Once all the details are entered, click on the SAVE button.

Note:

You can enter negative values here related to Net of advances, credit and debit notes or any other adjustment due to amendments.

The tax amounts are auto calculated on the basis of values entered in Taxable Value and selected tax rate. These fields are editable. The CESS amount has to be entered manually.

 

Note 1: New 6% rate will be visible in the Rate (%) dropdown list from the financial year 2022–23 and onwards.

 

 

Note 2: From FY 2024-25 onwards, for inward supplies where reverse charge is not applicable, the system will not allow you to add multiple rows for these supplies. You must report the total consolidated taxable value in one row. The “Add” button under the Actions column will be disabled after adding one row.

 

 

6.4. Once the details are saved, a success message gets displayed. The details of the document are validated by the GST Portal and are added to the Pending Records table till the validation is completed. Post successful validation, the document gets added to the Processed records (Validated successfully) section of this page. You may refresh the page to see the most updated status of documents. In case, the documents are processed with error, it would be available in ‘Pending Records’ table with status as ‘Processed with error’. You may click edit to see the error and correct the same.

 

Note:

To edit or delete the added details, click the Edit/Delete icons under the Action column.

To search in the list of added records, enter the relevant text/value in the Search field.

To view records per page, select the required number of records from the Records Per Page drop-down list.

To download the added details in the CSV format, click on the Download CSV link.

 

 

Note: Similarly, you can enter other details for the table.

 

 

Click here to go back to the main menu

4D. Import of service

6.1. To add details of import of service, select 4D. Import of service from the "Select tables to add/view details" drop-down list.

 

 

6.2. Click on the Add (+) button.

Note: Place of Supply of the recipient is shown as the State/UT in which the recipient is registered, by default and cannot be edited.

 

 

6.3. On clicking the Add (+) button, the Item Details fields get displayed. Enter the item details of the document and click on the Add (+) button to add more rows. Once all the details are entered, click on the SAVE button.

 

Note:

You can enter negative values here to enter details related to Net of advances, credit and debit notes or any other adjustment due to amendments.

The Integrated tax amount is auto calculated on the basis of values entered in Taxable Value and selected tax rate. These fields are editable. The CESS amount has to be entered manually.

 

 

Note: New 6% rate will be visible in the Rate (%) drop-down list from the financial year 2022–23 and onwards.

 

 

6.4. Once the details are saved, a success message gets displayed. The details of the document are validated by the GST Portal and are added to the Pending Records table till the validation is completed. Post successful validation, the document gets added to the Processed records (Validated successfully) section of this page. You may refresh the page to see the most updated status of documents. In case, the documents are processed with error, it would be available in ‘Pending Records’ table with status as ‘Processed with error’. You may click on the Edit button to see the error and correct the same.

 

 

Note:

To edit or delete the added details, click the Edit/Delete icons under the Action column.

To search in the list of added records, enter the relevant text/value in the Search field.

To view records per page, select the required number of records from the Records Per Page drop-down list.

To download the added details in the CSV format, click on the Download CSV link.

 

 

Click here to go back to the main menu

5. Summary of CMP-08

6.1. To view auto-drafted details, as provided in filed Form CMP-08 for the financial year, select 5. Summary of CMP-08 from the "Select tables to add/view details" drop-down list.

Note: Summary of self-assessed liability is auto-populated in Table-5 of GSTR-4 Annual Return on basis of filed Form CMP-08 & is non-editable.

 

 

Click here to go back to the main menu

6. Tax rate wise inward supplies attracting reverse charge and outward supplies

6.1. To enter tax rate wise details of outward supplies select 6. Tax rate wise inward and outward supplies from the "Select tables to add/view details" drop-down list. 

 

Note: There are two separate tabs for Outward Supplies and Inward Supplies.

 

6.2. Enter the details and click SAVE.

 

Note:

You can enter negative values here to enter details related to Net of advances, credit and debit notes or any other adjustment due to amendments.

You can declare your outward supplies in the user input cells in row 12 -16. Once you click on ‘Proceed to file’ button, Table 4B, 4C and 4D data will be auto-populated in Table 6 with inward supplies attracting reverse charge (rate wise) in row 1-11.

 

 

Click here to go back to the main menu

7. TDS/TCS credit received

6.1. To view details related to TDS/TCS credit received, select 7. TDS/TCS credit received from the "Select tables to add/view details" drop-down list.

Note:

Amount of TDS and TCS are auto-drafted based on the Returns/ Statements filed by TDS and TCS taxpayers. The values in Table 7, TDS and TCS credit received will be populated based on the amount accepted and credited to Electronic cash ledger during that financial year.

Details provided in Table 7 cannot be edited.

 

 

Click here to go back to the main menu

C. Preview GSTR-4

7. Click on the BACK button to navigate to the Form GSTR-4 form. Click the Compute Liabilities button and further click the Refresh button after a few minutes. 

 

 

Note: Click the Refresh button. The Compute Liabilities button disappears and the Proceed to File button appears.

 

8. The Compute Liabilities button disappears and the Proceed to File button appears. The Ready to file message is displayed.

 

9. Click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 SUMMARY (PDF)/ DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 (EXCEL) button to download the Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) summary in PDF or the Excel format. This button will download the draft Summary page of your Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) for your review. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections before filing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return).

 

10. The PDF/Excel file is displayed.

 

 

Note: From financial year 2024-25 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Click here to go back to the main menu

D. Proceed to File and Payment of Tax

11. Click PROCEED TO FILE button.

 

 

12. A Warning message will be displayed. Click the OK button.

 

 

Note:
This warning message will appear only if the outward supplies liability in table 6 is not declared or less than 10% or Rs.1000 is declared compared to liabilities declared in CMP-08s.

 

13. Preview for Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) is displayed. Click the CONTINUE button.

 

 

Note 1: From financial year 2024-25 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 2:
The table for “Reconciliation of Inward/Outward supplies auto-populated in table 5 with Inward/Outward supplies declared in table 6”, is a non-editable table that shows the difference between the liabilities declared in Table 5 and liabilities paid in Table 6. The data here is auto-generated.

 

14.8. Tax, Interest, late fee payable and paid page is displayed.

 

 

15.1. The cash ledger balance as available on date is shown in below table.

 

 

Note:

Net liabilities is calculated as Tax payable (on Inward supplies related to reverse charge, as reported in Table 4B, 4C and 4D and Outward supplies as reported in Table 6) – Tax amount already paid (through filed Form CMP-08 as shown in Table 5) – Adjustment of negative liability (Excess amount deposited through Form CMP-08).

“Additional Cash Required” column reflects the cash required to be paid through challan for payment of tax, interest and late fee, after adjusting the amount available in Electronic Cash Ledger.

If there are any interest liability to be declared, the same can be declared in “Interest payable” column.

If Form GSTR-4 is not filed by the due date, GST Portal will calculate the late fee as per the prescribed law and show the same in “Late Fee Payable” column.

 

15.2 (a). Scenario 1: If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then a part payment of liability can be made from available balance of the Electronic Cash Ledger. Additional cash required to be paid by taxpayer is shown in the "Tax to be paid, Interest to be paid and Late Fee to be paid" column.

You may directly create challan for payment of remaining part of liability, by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

ii. The Create Challan page is displayed.

Note: In the Tax Payment grid, the Total Challan Amount field and Total Challan Amount (In Words) fields are auto-populated with amount of remaining part of liability (for which payment is to be made). You cannot edit the amount shown in challan.

iii. Select the Payment Modes as E-Payment/ Over the Counter/ NEFT/RTGS.

iv. Click the GENERATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

v. The Challan is generated.

 

 

Note: 

In case of Net Banking: You will be directed to the Net Banking page of the selected Bank. The payment amount is shown at the Bank’s website. If you want to change the amount, abort the transaction and create a new challan.

In case of successful payment, you will be re-directed to the GST Portal where the transaction status will be displayed.

 

In case of Over the Counter:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Pay using Cash/ Cheque/ Demand Draft within the Challan’s validity period. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

In case of NEFT/ RTGS:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Mandate form will be generated simultaneously. Pay using Cheque through your account with the selected Bank/ Branch. You can also pay using the account debit facility. The transaction will be processed by the Bank and RBI shall confirm the same within <2 hours>. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

Click here to refer the FAQs and User Manual on Making Payment.

 

15.2 (b). Scenario 2: If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash payment is required for paying liability.

 

 

16. Click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 SUMMARY (PDF)/ DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 (EXCEL) button to download the Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) summary in PDF or the Excel format. This button will download the draft Summary page of your Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) for your review. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections before filing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return).

 

 

17. The summary page of Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) is displayed.

 

 

Note: From financial year 2024-25 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Click here to go back to the main menu

E. File Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) with DSC/ EVC

18. Select the Declaration checkbox. Select the Authorized Signatory from the drop-down list. Click the FILE GSTR-4 button.

Note: File button gets enabled only if you have-

No ‘Additional cash (which) is required’ to be paid for liabilities, if any.

Clicked on declaration check box and have selected authorized signatory details from the drop-down list.

 

 

19. Click YES button.

 

 

20. The File return/statement page is displayed. Click the FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button.

 

 

21. The success message is displayed and ARN is displayed. Status of the Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) return changes to "Filed". Click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 SUMMARY (PDF)/ DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 (EXCEL) button to download the Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) summary in PDF or the Excel format.

 

 

Note: After Form GSTR-4 is filed:

ARN is generated on successful filing of the Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) Return.

An SMS and an email are sent to the taxpayer on his registered mobile and email id.

 

22. The Final page of Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) is displayed.

 

 

Note: From financial year 2024-25 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Click here to go back to the main menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[49] Filing Form GST CMP-08 – Quarterly Statement for Payment of Self-assessed Tax by Composition Taxpayer (FY 2019-20 onwards) - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=faq_GSTR4annual.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Filing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) (for FY 2019-20 Onwards)
1. What is Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) is a yearly return to be filed once, for each financial year, by taxpayers who have opted for composition scheme during the financial year, for were in Composition scheme for any period during the said financial year, from 1st April, 2019 onwards. Such taxpayers are required to furnish details regarding summary of outward supplies, Inward supplies, import of services and supplies attracting reverse charge in this form.

2. Who needs to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

All registered taxpayers who have opted for composition scheme under GST, for any period during the financial year, need to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return). This will include a taxpayer -

who have opted for composition scheme since registration and have never opted out subsequently; and

who have opted in for composition scheme before starting of the financial year; and

who have opted in for composition but subsequently opted out any time during the year.

3. Who doesn't need to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

Following persons are not required to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return):

Regular taxpayer who have not opted in composition scheme for any period during the financial year

Non-resident taxable person

OIDAR

Input service distributor

Casual Taxable Person

Person required to Deduct Tax at Source u/s 51

Person required to Collect Tax at Source u/s 52

UIN holder

4. Is it mandatory to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

Yes, it’s mandatory for all composition taxpayers to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return).

5. By when do I need to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) is to be filed on yearly basis. The due date for filing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) is 30th of the month succeeding the financial year or as extended by Government from time to time.

6. I got my registration cancelled during the financial year. Am I required to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

Yes, Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) is required to be filed if you were a composition taxpayer during any part of the financial year even if you have got your registration cancelled during the said financial year.

Opt in and Opt out of composition & Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)  
7. I opted out of composition scheme in the financial year. Do I need to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

Yes, you need to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) even if you may have opted out from the composition scheme. Your Form GSTR-4 return should include the details for the period during which you remained under the composition scheme.

Pre-conditions of Filing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)  
8. What are the pre-conditions for filing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

Pre-conditions for filing of Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) are:

Taxpayer must have been registered in the relevant financial year and opted for composition scheme for even a day during the financial year.

Taxpayer must have filed all Form CMP-08 quarterly statements for the applicable period during the relevant financial year.

9. I have not filed all my applicable statement(s) during the financial year. Still, can I file Form GSTR-4 Annual return without filing of those applicable statement(s)?

No. You cannot file Annual return in Form GSTR-4 without filing Form CMP-08, for the applicable period/periods, of the relevant financial year.

The button to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) will get enabled only after you have filed Form GST CMP-08 for the all applicable quarters of the relevant Financial Year.

Filing Nil Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)  
10. Can I file nil Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

Nil Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) can be filed for the Financial year, if you have: -

NOT made any outward supply

NOT received any goods/services

Have NO other tax liability to report

Have filed all Form CMP-08 as Nil

Note:

If there are any interest liability to be declared, the same can be declared in “Interest payable” column.

If Nil Form GSTR-4 is not filed by the due date, GST Portal will calculate the late fee as per the prescribed law and show the same in “Late Fee Payable” column.

“Additional Cash Required” column reflects the cash required to be paid through challan for payment of interest and late fee, after adjusting the amount available in Electronic Cash Ledger.

Filing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) 
11. From where can I file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) can be accessed on the GST Portal, post login in the Returns Dashboard by the composition taxpayer.

The path is Services > Returns > Annual Return to file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return).

12. Can the date of filing of Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) be extended?

Yes, date of filing of Form GSTR-4 (Annual) can be extended by Government through notification.

Entering Details in Tables of Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)
13. Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) comprises of which tables?

Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) comprises of following tables:

 

4A. Inward supplies from registered supplier (other than reverse charge): To add details of inward supplies received from a registered supplier (other than reverse charge)

4B. Inward supplies from registered supplier (reverse charge): To add details of inward supplies received from a registered supplier (reverse charge)

4C. Inward supplies from unregistered supplier: To add details of inward supplies received from an unregistered supplier

4D. Import of Service: To add details of import of service

5. Summary of CMP-08: To view auto-drafted details provided in filed Form CMP-08 for the financial year. These details are non-editable.

6. Tax rate wise inward and outward supplies: To enter tax rate wise details of outward supplies during the financial year (Row 12 to 16)

7. TDS/TCS credit received: To view details related to TDS/TCS credit received. These details are non-editable.

 

Note: The entries in table 4 (4A, 4B, 4C & 4D) will be net of credit/debit notes and advances.

14. What details are entered in Table 3(a)?

The taxpayer need to enter previous year's Aggregate turnover.

Note:

You will not be able to proceed further without entering aggregate turnover of previous financial year.

In case, you were registered during the current FY or had nil aggregate turnover, please enter '0' (Zero) here.

On saving aggregate turnover details, other buttons on this screen will get enabled.

15. Which tables in Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) has auto-populated data from filed Form CMP-08?

Table 5. Summary of self-assessed liability in Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) has auto-populated data from all filed Form CMP-08 of the relevant Financial Year and is non-editable.

16. Is the amount in tax fields auto-calculated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields?

The Amount of Tax fields are auto-calculated, based on the values entered in Taxable Value and tax rate fields, respectively. The CESS field is not auto calculated and has to be entered by the taxpayer.

17. How are values populated in Table 7 ‘Amount of TDS and TCS credit received?

Amount of TDS and TCS are auto-drafted based on the Returns/ Statements filed by TDS and TCS taxpayers. The values in Table 7, TDS and TCS credit received will be populated based on the amount accepted and credited to Electronic cash ledger during that financial year.

18. How to add Outward supplies details in table 6 -Tax rate wise details of outward supplies during the year (Net of advances, credit and debit notes and any other adjustment due to amendments etc.)?

The details of Outward supplies need to be entered manually by the taxpayer in row 12 to 16. The system will not auto-draft these details.

However, the details of inward supplies attracting reverse charge (from table 4B, 4C and 4D for each tax rate wise) will be auto-drafted in row 1 to 11 only after the taxpayer has clicked on ‘Proceed to file’ button. Before that, the balance will be displayed as ‘zero’.

Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) & Consolidating Summary
19. Can I download summary of Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

Yes, you can download summary of Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) in PDF format and Excel format.

Navigate to Services > Returns > Annual Return > Form GSTR-4 (PREPARE ONLINE) > DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 SUMMARY (PDF)/ DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 (EXCEL) button option.

Filing & Paying Late Fee
20. Is there any late fee in case of delayed filing of Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

Yes, there is a late fee for filing of Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) beyond the due date.

21. Can I file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) return without paying late fee (if applicable)?

No. You can’t file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) without payment of late fee for Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return), if same is filed after the specified date.

Note: You can’t file Nil Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) without payment of late fee, if same is filed after the specified date.

22. How can I discharge my tax, interest and late fee liabilities?

Tax and late fee are auto drafted in Table 8 and Interest is user input. Both will display in Table 8 and liabilities can be discharged through Electronic Cash Ledger only.

Note:

“Additional Cash Required” column reflects the cash required to be paid through challan for payment of tax, interest and late fee, after adjusting the amount available in Electronic Cash Ledger.

If there are any interest liability to be declared, the same can be declared in “Interest payable” column.

If Form GSTR-4 is not filed by the due date, GST Portal will calculate the late fee as per the prescribed law and show the same in “Late Fee Payable” column.

23. How can I offset my liabilities?

The net tax and late fee liabilities are auto-populated and the liability towards interest is to be calculated and entered manually in Table-8. The net tax liability is arrived at by the system by deducting the amount paid in CMP-08 from the details in table 6.

You can offset the liabilities by choosing the appropriate option in Table 8. Tax, Interest, Late fee payable and paid.

If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then a part payment of liability can be made from available balance of the Electronic Cash Ledger. You may directly create challan for payment of remaining part of liability, by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash payment is required for offsetting liability.

Note: You can also offset, if any excess amount is paid towards liability through CMP-08 and is available in Negative liability statement.

24. I am getting a warning message that records are under process or processed with error while filing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return). What do I do?

In case, records (or data as submitted while filing Form GSTR-4 Annual Return) are processed with error or are under process at the back end, a warning message is displayed. If records are still under process, wait for processing to be completed at the back end. For records which are processed with error, go back to Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) and take action on those records.

Additional Liability & it's Payment  
25. What do I need to do if available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities?

Available cash balance as on date in Electronic Cash Ledger is shown to the taxpayer in "Cash Ledger Balance" table. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then additional cash required to be paid by taxpayer is shown in the "Additional Cash Required" column. You may create challan for the additional cash directly by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

26. When will "FILE GSTR-4" button gets enabled?

File button gets enabled only if you have-

No ‘Additional cash which is required’ to be paid for liabilities, if any.

Clicked on declaration check box and have selected authorized signatory details from the drop-down list.

Previewing & Signing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) 
27. What are the modes of signing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

You can file Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) using DSC or EVC.

 

(a) Digital Signature Certificate (DSC)

Digital Signature Certificates (DSC) are the digital equivalent (that is electronic format) of physical or paper certificates. A digital certificate can be presented electronically to prove one’s identity, to access information or services on the Internet or to sign certain documents digitally. In India, DSC are issued by authorized Certifying Authorities. The GST Portal accepts PAN based DSC’s only.

 

 

(b) Electronic Verification Code (EVC)

The Electronic Verification Code (EVC) authenticates the identity of the user at the GST Portal by generating an OTP. The OTP is sent to the mobile phone number of the registered mobile phone of Authorized Signatory filled in part A of the Registration Application.

28. Can I preview Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) before filing?

Yes, you can preview Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) in PDF and Excel format by clicking on ‘DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 (PDF)' and ‘DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 (EXCEL)' button before filing Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) on the GST Portal.

Post Filing of Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)  
29. Can I revise Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) after filing?

No, you cannot revise Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) after filing.

30. What happens after Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) is filed?

After Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) is filed:

1. ARN will be generated on successful filing of the Form.

2. An SMS and email will be sent to the mobile number of the authorized signatory on the successful filing of Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return).

3. Electronic Cash Ledger and Electronic Liability Register Part-I will get updated.

31. From where can I view and download filed Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return)?

To view and download filed Form GSTR-4 (Annual Return) login to the GST Portal and navigate to Services > Returns > View/Download Filed Returns.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[50] Viewing Form GSTR-4A - Auto-drafted Details for Composition Taxpayer - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_4A.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Viewing Form GSTR-4A
How can I view the auto-drafted details in Form GSTR-4A?

Form GSTR-4A is an auto-drafted and view only form for composition taxpayer, created on basis of data from the saved/submitted/filed Form GSTR-1/A & 5 of their suppliers, where composition taxpayer is the recipient. The composition taxpayer cannot take any action in Form GSTR-4A and this form is only for view.

To view the auto-drafted details in Form GSTR-4A, perform the following steps:

 

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard option.

Alternatively, you can also click the Returns Dashboard link on the Dashboard.

 

 

2. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Return Filing Period for which you want to view Form GSTR-4A from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button. GSTR4A tile is displayed.

 

3. Download GSTR-4A: To download Form GSTR-4A details in excel

4. View GSTR-4A: To view Form GSTR-4A details directly on GST Portal

 

3. Download GSTR-4A: You can use DOWNLOAD GSTR-4A option to download all Form GSTR-4A details, in an excel format, for any range of quarters, in the selected financial year.

3.1. In the GSTR4A tile, click the DOWNLOAD button.

 

 

3.2. Select the From and To Quarter from the drop-down list and click the GENERATE EXCEL FILE TO DOWNLOAD button to download GSTR-4A details in an excel format.

 

 

3.3. Success message is displayed. Once the file is generated, the link will appear to download the same. Click on the link to download the file.

 

3.4. A zip file is downloaded.

 

 

3.5. Unzip the file and click the downloaded excel file.

 

3.6. Excel file with Form GSTR-4A details are displayed.
•    B2B: To view all the inward supplies received from registered suppliers
•    B2BA: To view invoices which are amended by the supplier in their returns of Form GSTR-1/1A/5 respectively
•    CDNR: To view Credit/Debit notes added by the supplier in their respective returns (Form GSTR-1/1A/5)
•    CDNRA: To view amendments of Credit/Debit notes done by the supplier in their respective returns (Form GSTR-1/1A/5)

 

 

4. View GSTR-4A

4.1. In the Form GSTR-4A tile, click the VIEW button to view the details directly on GST Portal.

 

 

4.2. The Form GSTR-4A – AUTO DRAFTED DETAILS page is displayed.

 

 

Click the tile names to know more details:

 

5. 3A,3B - B2B Invoices: To view all the inward supplies received from registered suppliers

6. 4 - Amendments to B2B Invoices: To view invoices which are amended by the supplier in their returns of GSTR-1/5 respectively

7. 4 - Credit/Debit Notes To view Credit/Debit notes added by the supplier in their respective returns (GSTR-1/5)

8. 4 - Amendments to Credit/Debit Notes: To view amendments of Credit/Debit notes done by the supplier in their respective returns (GSTR-1/5)

 

5. 3A,3B - B2B Invoices

 

This section displays all the inward supplies received from registered suppliers. The B2B section of PART A of GSTR-4A is auto-populated on uploading or saving of invoices by the suppliers in their respective returns of GSTR-1/1A and GSTR-5.

 

5.1. Click the 3A,3B - B2B Invoices tile. The B2B Invoices - Supplier Details page is displayed.

 

 

5.2. Click the GSTIN hyperlink to view the invoices uploaded by the supplier.

 

 

5.3. Click the Invoice No. hyperlink to view the invoice details.

 

 

5.4. The item details are displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

6. 4 - Amendments to B2B Invoices

 

This section covers the invoices which are amended by the supplier in their returns of GSTR-1/1A/5 respectively.

 

6.1. Click the 4 - Amendments to B2B Invoices tile. The Amend B2B Invoices - Supplier Details page is displayed.

 

 

6.2. Click the GSTIN hyperlink to view the amended invoices uploaded by the supplier.

 

 

6.3. Click the Invoice No. hyperlink to view the invoice details.

 

 

6.4. The item details are displayed.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

7. 4 - Credit/Debit Notes

 

This section covers the Credit/Debit notes added by the supplier in their respective returns (Form GSTR-1/1A/5).

7.1. Click the 4 - Credit/Debit Notes tile. The Credit/Debit Notes – Supplier Details page is displayed.

 

 

7.2. Click the GSTIN hyperlink to view the credit/debit notes uploaded by the supplier.

 

 

7.3. Click the Credit/ Debit Note No hyperlink to view the credit/debit note details.

 

Scenario 1:  You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 2: You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 3: You will see the below screenshot, in case you have saved your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes and filed your statements/returns after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

7.4. The item details are displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

8. 4 - Amendments to Credit/Debit Notes

 

This section covers the amendments of Debit / credit notes done by the supplier in their respective returns (GSTR-1/1A/5).

8.1. Click the 4 - Amendments to Credit/Debit Notes tile. The Amend Credit/Debit Notes - Supplier Details page is displayed.

 

 

8.2. Click the GSTIN hyperlink to view the amended credit/debit notes uploaded by the supplier.

 

 

8.3. Click the Credit/ Debit Note No hyperlink to view the invoice details.

 

Scenario 1: You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 2: You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 3: You will see the below screenshot, in case you have saved your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes and filed your statements/returns after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

8.4. The item details are displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[51] Viewing Form GSTR-4A - Auto-drafted Details for Composition Taxpayer - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_4a.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > GSTR-4A
1. What is Form GSTR-4A?

Form 

rm GSTR-4A is an auto-drafted and read only form for composition taxpayer, auto created on basis of data from the saved/submitted/filed Form GSTR-1 & 5 and filed Form GSTR-7 of the deductors, where composition taxpayer is the recipient. The Composition taxpayer cannot take any action in Form GSTR-4A. This form is only for view.

Please note: Form GSTR-4A may be used as reference to enter details in Form GSTR-4.

2. What are various sections in Form GSTR-4A and what do they show?

Form GSTR-4A shows following sections:

1. 3A,3B - B2B Invoices: This section displays all the inward supplies received from a registered suppliers.

2. 4 - Credit/Debit Notes: This section displays the Credit/Debit notes added by the supplier in their respective returns

3. 4 - Amendments to B2B Invoices: This section displays the invoices which are amended by the supplier in their returns.

4. 4 - Amendments to Credit/Debit Notes: This displays the amendments of Credit/Debit notes done by the supplier in their respective returns.

3. Do I have to file Form GSTR-4A?

No, you don’t have to file Form GSTR-4A. It is a read-only document provided to you so that you have a record of all the invoices received from various suppliers in a given tax period.

4. Can I make changes to or add an invoice in my Form GSTR-4A in case there are any errors or omission in the details uploaded by my supplier taxpayers?

No, you cannot make any changes to Form GSTR-4A, as it is a read-only document.

5. I have added new/ missing invoice in Form GSTR-4. Will I be able to see those invoices in Form GSTR-4A?

Any new/missing invoices added by composition taxpayer in Form GSTR-4 is not added to GSTR-4A of either current or subsequent tax period.

6. What happens if the composition taxpayer has filed his Form GSTR-4 and Supplier is filing his Form GSTR-1/5 post that for corresponding tax period?

If composition taxpayer has filed his Form GSTR-4 and Supplier is filing his Form GSTR-1/5 post that for corresponding tax period, in such a case Form GSTR-1/5 data will be auto-populated to the next open period Form GSTR-4A.

 

Example: - Receiver has filed Form GSTR-4 for Q1. And supplier is filing Form GSTR-1 for July month. In this scenario, Form GSTR-1 invoices would be populated in next open period i.e. Q2 of Form GSTR-4A.

 

7. When do I need to download the invoices to view them in my Form GSTR-4A?

If number of invoices is more than 500, then you need to download the invoices to view them in your Form GSTR-4A.

8. What is the impact of Debit/ Credit Note on Form GSTR-4A, before and after its delinking with invoices?

S. No

	

Before Delinking of Debit/ Credit Note with invoices

	

After Delinking of Debit/ Credit Note with invoices

1

	

Original invoice number and original invoice date were auto-drafted

	

Original invoice number and original invoice date fields are not visible for entry.

2

	

POS field was not required as the same was derived from original invoice. Hence, POS was not provided.

	

POS field is a mandatory field for entry and is visible for entry.

 

9. From where can I download Form GSTR-4A in an excel format?

Navigate to Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard option > Select the Financial Year & Return Filing Period > DOWNLOAD > GENERATE EXCEL FILE TO DOWNLOAD button to download Form GSTR-4A details in an Excel format, for any range of quarters, in the selected financial year.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[52] Filing Form GSTR-5 – Return for Non-resident Taxable Person - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR-5.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Form GSTR-5
How can I file return in Form GSTR-5?

To create, submit and file details in the Form GSTR-5, perform following steps:

 

A. Login and Navigate to GSTR-5 page

C. Enter details in various tiles

Original Details

Amendment Details

C. Preview GSTR-5

D. Payment of Tax

E. File GSTR-5 with DSC/ EVC

F. View GSTR-5 Status

A. Login and Navigate to GSTR-5 page

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard command.

Alternatively, you can also click the Returns Dashboard link on the Dashboard.

 

 

4. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Return Filing Period (Month) for which you want to file the return from the drop-down list.

5. Click the SEARCH button.

6. In the GSTR5 tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button.

7. The GSTR-5 - Return for Non-resident taxable person page is displayed.

 

B. Enter Details in various tiles

There are tiles representing Tables to enter relevant details. Click on the tile names to know and enter related details:

 

Original Details

3 - Import of Goods - To add details of inputs/ capital goods received from overseas

5 - Outward Supplies Made - To add details of taxable outward supplies made to registered persons (including UIN holders)

6 - B2CL (Large) Invoices - To add details for taxable outwards supplies to a consumer, where place of supply is other than the State where supplier is located (Inter-State supplies) and invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh. 
Note: As per amended rules from August 2024 tax return period onwards, this table will be used to add an invoice for taxable outwards supplies to a consumer, where place of supply is other than the State where supplier is located (Inter-state supplies) and invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh for current tax period only and up to July 2024 tax return period, the invoice value should be more than Rs. 2.5 lakhs.

7A,7B - B2C (Small) - To add details of taxable supplies to unregistered persons other than supplies mentioned at Table 6

8B - Credit/Debit Notes - To add details of credit/ debit notes

8B - Unregistered Credit/Debit Notes - To add details of credit/ debit notes for B2C large details

10C- Inward supplies liable to reverse charge – To add taxable value, Integrated tax, Central tax, State/UT tax and Cess.

10B- 10A,10B. Tax liability 

11, 12, 14 - Tax Payable and Paid

Amendment Details

4 - Amended Import of Goods - To add details of amendments to import of goods

8A - Amendment to Outward Supplies - To add details of amendments to outward supplies to registered persons (including UIN holders)

8A - Amendment B2C (Large Invoices) - To add details of amendments to outward inter-state supplies to unregistered persons

9A, 9B. Amended to B2C (Small) - To add details of amendments to outward supplies to unregistered persons

8C.Amendment to Credit/Debit Notes (RD) - To add details of amendments to Credit/Debit Notes for supplies to registered persons

8C.Amendment to Credit/Debit Notes (UNRD)- To add details of amendments to Credit/Debit Notes for supplies to unregistered persons

3 - Import of Goods

 

a. To add details of inputs/ capital goods received from overseas. click the 3 - Import of Goods tile.

 

 

 

b. In the Import of goods page, click the ADD BOE button to add a new invoice.

 

c. In the Port Code field, enter the port code.  

Note: Port code should be 6 alphanumeric characters.

d. In the Bill of Entry No. field, enter the bill of entry number.

Note: Bill of Entry No. should be minimum 3 and maximum 15 digit numeric.

e. Select the Bill of Entry Date using the calendar.

f. In the Bill of Entry Value field, enter the total value of the BOE.

g. In the Taxable Value field, against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods.

h. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

i. Select Eligibility for ITC from the drop-down list.

j. In the Amount of ITC available field against the rates, enter the amount of ITC claimed.

k. Click the SAVE button to save the BoE details.

 

 

l. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that Bill of Entry is added. Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices (under Actions).

m. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

 

The 3 - Import of Goods tile will reflect the number of records added along with Total Taxable Value, Total Liability and Total ITC available.
Please click the refresh button on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile. 

 

5 - Outward Supplies Made (Regd.)

a. To add details of taxable outward supplies made to registered persons (including UIN holders), click the 5 - Outward Supplies Made (Regd.) tile.

 

 

 

b. Click the ADD DETAILS button.

 

 

c. In the Receiver GSTIN/UIN field, enter the GSTIN or UIN of the receiver.

d. In the Invoice No., Invoice Date and Total Invoice Value fields, enter the Invoice number, date of the invoice and value of the total invoice.

Note:

• The GSTIN should be registered on the date of invoice. In GSTR-1, suspended GSTINs are also allowed.

• Once the GSTIN of the receiver is entered, Receiver Name, POS and Supply Type fields are auto-populated based on the GSTIN of the receiver.

• The auto-populated POS is editable. Depending on selected POS, the supply type gets auto-populated.

• The screen will expand downwards and more fields will appear to enter line item details of the invoice.

• In case of UN Bodies, Embassies, Government Offices or Other Notified persons, you need to provide Unique Identification Number (UIN) of the receiver.

• An invoice number should be alphanumeric with allowable special characters and unique for a given Financial Year (FY).

• Invoice date cannot be a future date or a date prior to the date of registering with GST.

 

e (i). In case of Intra-State transaction:

In case, the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the same State as that of the supplier, the transaction is an Intra-State transaction.

Fields for Central Tax and State/UT Tax will appear.

a) In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services.

b) In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively.

 

 

e (ii). In case of Inter-State transaction:

In case the Place of Supply (POS) is different from the State of the supplier, transaction becomes an Inter-State transaction.

Fields for Integrated Tax will appear.

a) In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services.

b) In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. The CESS field is not auto populated and has to be entered by the taxpayer.

 

 

f. Click the SAVE OUTWARD SUPPLIES button to save the invoice details.

g. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that invoice is added.

h. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

 

The 5 - Outward Supplies Made (Regd.) tile will reflect the number of invoices added along with Total Invoice Value, Total Taxable Value and Total Tax Liability.

Please click the refresh button ( ) on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile.

 

 

6 - B2C (Large)

a. To add details for taxable outwards supplies to a consumer, where place of supply is other than the State where supplier is located (Inter-State supplies) and invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh, click the 6 - B2C (Large) tile.

 

Note: As per the amendment to Rule 59(4) of the CGST Rules, 2017, notified vide Notification No. 12/2024 – Central Tax dated 10.07.2024, the threshold for invoice-wise reporting of inter-State supplies to unregistered persons (consumers) in GSTR-1 has been revised. Accordingly, with effect from the tax period of August 2024 onwards, this table shall be used to report invoices relating to taxable outward supplies made to unregistered persons, where the place of supply is in a State/UT other than the State/UT where the supplier is registered (i.e., inter-State supplies), and the invoice value exceeds ₹1,00,000.
For tax periods up to July 2024, this table shall be used only where the invoice value exceeds ₹2,50,000.

 

 

 

b. Click the ADD DETAILS button.

 

 

c. Select the Place of Supply (Name of State) from the drop-down list.

d. In the Invoice No., Invoice Date and Total Invoice Value fields, enter the Invoice number, date of the invoice and value of the total invoice.

e. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services.

f. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. The CESS field is not auto populated and has to be entered by the taxpayer.

g. Click the SAVE button to save the invoice details.

 

 

Note: Before August 2024 tax return period onwards, if taxpayer enters less than or equal to 2.5 lacs amount in Total Invoice Value field than clicking on SAVE button following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

From August 2024 tax return period onwards, if taxpayer enters less than or equal to 1 lac amount in Total Invoice Value field than clicking on SAVE button following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

h. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that invoice is added. Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices (under Actions).

i. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

 

The 6 - B2C (Large) tile will reflect the number of invoices added along with Total Invoice Value, Total Taxable Value and Total Liability.

Please click the refresh button ( ) on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile.

 

7A,7B - B2C (Small)

a. To add details of taxable supplies to unregistered persons other than supplies mentioned at Table 6, click the 7A,7B - B2C (Small) tile.

 

 

 

b. Click the ADD DETAILS button.

 

 

c. Select the Place of Supply (Name of State) from the drop-down list.

d. In the Taxable Value field, enter the taxable value of the goods or services.

e. Select the Rate (%) from the drop-down list.

 

f (i). In case of Intra-State transaction:

In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the same State as that of the supplier, the transaction is an Intra-State transaction.

a) In the Cess Amount field, enter the Cess Amount based on Inter-State/ Intra-State transactions.

 

 

f (ii). In case of Inter-State transaction:

In case the Place of Supply (POS) is different from the State of the supplier, transaction becomes an Inter-State transaction.

a) In the Cess Amount field, enter the Cess amount.

 

 

g. Click the SAVE button to save the invoice details.

h. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that invoice is added. Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices (under Actions).

i. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

 

The 7A,7B - B2C (Small) tile will reflect the number of invoices added along with Total Taxable Value and Total Liability.

Please click the refresh button ( ) on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile.

 

8B - Credit/Debit Notes (RD)

a. To add details of credit/ debit notes issued, click the 8B. - Credit/Debit Notes(RD) tile.

 

 

b. Click the ADD CREDIT / DEBIT NOTE button.

 

 

c. Enter the Receiver GSTIN / UIN. The system will auto-populate Receiver Name.

d. In the Original Invoice No. field, enter the invoice number against which this Credit / Debit note has been issued.

e. In the Original Invoice Date field, enter the date of this invoice.

f. Select the type of this note, whether Debit or Credit note, from the Note Type drop-down list.

g. Enter the value of this note in the Note Value field.

h. Enter the note number in the Debit / Credit Note No. field.

i. In the Debit / Credit Note Date field, enter the date of this note.

j. From the Supply Type drop-down list, select whether this note was issued against an Intra-State or Inter-State supply.

 

 

k (i). In case of Intra-State transaction:

In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the same State as that of the supplier, the transaction is an Intra-State transaction.

a) Enter the Taxable Values against various GST rates as applicable in this note.

 

Note: The Amount of Tax in fields Central Tax and State / UT Tax are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. The CESS field is not auto populated and has to be entered by the Taxpayer.

 

 

k (ii). In case of Inter-State transaction:

In case the Place of Supply (POS) is different from the State of the supplier, transaction becomes an Inter-State transaction.

a) Enter the Taxable Values against various GST rates as applicable in this note.

 

Note: The Amount of Tax in field Integrated Tax is auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. However, the Taxpayer can edit the tax amount. The CESS field is not auto populated and has to be entered by the Taxpayer.

 

 

l. Click the SAVE button to save the Credit / Debit Note details.

m. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that invoice is added.

n. Click the Counterparty GSTIN link under the Processed Invoices section.

 

Notes:

Here, you can edit / delete the added Credit / Debit Note (under Actions).

You can edit / delete the entries till GSTR-5 is submitted.

 

0. Click the BACK button to go back to the 8B. Credit/Debit notes (RD) page.

 

p. Click the BACK button again to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

The 8B – Credit / Debit Notes (RD) tile in GSTR-5 will reflect the number of Credit / Debit Notes added.

q. Click the refresh button ( ) on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile.

 

 

8B - Credit/Debit Notes (UNRD)

a. To add details of credit / debit notes for B2C large details, click the 8B - Credit / Debit Notes (UNRD) tile.

 

 

b. Click the ADD CREDIT / DEBIT NOTE button.

 

 

c. Select the type of this note, whether Debit or Credit note, from the Note Type drop-down list.

d. Enter the serial number of this note in the Debit / Credit Note No. field.

e. In the Debit / Credit Note Date field, enter the date of this note.

f. Enter the value of this note in the Note Value field.

g. In the Original Invoice No. field, enter the invoice number against which this Credit / Debit note has been issued.

h. In the Original Invoice Date field, enter the date of this invoice.

j. In the Item Details column, enter the Taxable Values against various GST rates as applicable in this note.

k. Enter the Taxable Values against various GST rates as applicable in this note.

 

Notes:

This tile captures the Credit / Debit notes issued to Un-registered people against Inter-State supplies only.

The Amount of Tax in field Integrated Tax is auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively. The CESS field is not auto populated and has to be entered by the Taxpayer.

 

l. Click the SAVE button to save the Credit / Debit Note details.

 

 

m. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that invoice is added.

n. Click the Credit / Debit Note No. link under the Processed Invoices section.

 

Notes:

Here, you can edit / delete the added Credit / Debit Note (under Actions).

You can edit / delete the entries till GSTR-5 is submitted.

 

 

o. Click the BACK button to go back Credit / Debit Notes (Unregistered) - Summary page.

p. Click the BACK button again to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

The 8B – Unregistered Credit / Debit Notes (UNRD)  tile in GSTR-5 will reflect the number of Credit / Debit Notes added.

q. Click the refresh button ( ) on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile.

 

4 - Amended to Import of Goods

a. Click the 4. Amended to import of goods tile to add details of amendments to import of goods.

 

 

b. Select the Financial Year from the drop-down list.

c. In the Enter Port Code field, enter Port Code of the line item of the declarations of previous tax period.

d.  In the Enter Bill of Entry field, enter the Bill Of Entry of line item of the declarations of previous tax period.

e. Click the AMEND RECORDS button.

 

 

f. Make amendments to the details as required.

g. Click the SAVE button to save the details.

 

 

h. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that Bill of Entry is saved successfully. Here, you can also edit/delete the amended invoices (under Actions).

i. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

 

The 4 – Amended Import of Goods tile will reflect the number of invoices added along with Total Invoice Value, Total Liability and Total Taxable Value.

Please click the refresh button ( ) on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile.

 

8A - Amendment to Outward Supplies (Regd.)

a. Click the 8A - Amendment to Outward Supplies (Regd.) tile to add details of amendments to outward supplies to registered persons (including UIN holders).

 

 

b. Select the Financial Year from the drop-down list.

c. In the Invoice No. field, enter the invoice number which you want to amend from the earlier tax period.

d. Click the AMEND Records button.

 

 

e. Make amendments to the details as required.

f. Click the SAVE OUTWARD SUPPLIES button to save the invoice details.

 

 

g. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that invoice is saved successfully. Here, you can also edit/delete the amended invoices (under Actions).

h. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

 

The 8A - Amendment to Outward Supplies (Regd.)  tile will reflect the number of invoices added along with Total Invoice Value, Total Liability and Total Taxable Value.

Please click the refresh button ( ) on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile.

 

8A. Amendment to B2C (Large )

a. Click the 8A. Amendment to B2C (Large ) tile to add details of amendments to outward inter-state supplies to unregistered persons.

 

 

b. Select the Financial Year from the drop-down list.

c. In the Invoice No. field, enter the invoice number which you want to amend from the earlier tax period.

d. Click the AMEND RECORDS button.

 

 

e. Make amendments to the details as required.

f. Click the SAVE button to save the invoice details.

 

 

Note: Before August 2024 tax return period onwards, if taxpayer enters less than or equal to 2.5 lacs amount in Total Invoice Value field than clicking on SAVE button following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

From August 2024 tax return period onwards, if taxpayer enters less than or equal to 1 lac amount in Total Invoice Value field than clicking on SAVE button following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

g. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that invoice is saved successfully. Here, you can also edit/delete the amended invoices (under Actions).

h. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

 

The 8A. Amendment to B2C (Large ) tile will reflect the number of invoices added along with Total Invoice Value, Total Liability and Total Taxable Value.

Please click the refresh button ( ) on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile.

 

 

9A,9B. Amendment to B2C

a. Click the 9 A, 9B.Amendment to B2C (Small) tile to add details of amendments to outward supplies to unregistered persons.

 

 

b. Select the Financial Year from the drop-down list.

c. Select the Month from the drop-down list.

d. Select the Place of Supply (Name of State) from the drop-down list.

e. Select the Checkbox if the supply is eligible to be taxed at a differential percentage (%) of the existing rate of tax, as notified by the Government.

f. Select the Applicable % of Tax Rate from the drop-down list.

g. Click the AMEND DETAILS button.

 

 

h. Make amendments to the details as required.

i. Click the SAVE button to save the invoice details.

 

 

j. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that values have been saved successfully. Here, you can also edit/delete the amended values (under Actions).

k. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

 

The 9 A, 9B.Amendment to B2C (Small) tile will reflect the number of invoices added along with Total Taxable Value and Total Liability.

Please click the refresh button ( ) on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile.

 

8C.Amendment to Credit/Debit Notes (RD)

a. Click the 8C. Amendment to Credit/Debit Notes (RD) tile to add details of amendments to Credit/Debit Notes for supplies to registered persons.

 

 

b. Select the Financial Year from the drop-down list.

c. In the Credit/Debit Note No. field, enter the credit/debit number which you want to amend from the earlier tax period.

d. Click the AMEND NOTE button.

 

 

e. Make amendments to the details as required.

f. Click the SAVE button to save the invoice details.

 

 

g. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that invoice is saved successfully. Here, you can also edit/delete the amended invoices (under Actions).

h. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

 

The 8C. Amendment to Credit/Debit Notes (RD) tile will reflect the number of invoices added along with Total Taxable Value and Total Liability.

Please click the refresh button ( ) on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile.

 

8C.Amendment to Credit/Debit Notes (UNRD)

a. Click the 8C.Amendment to Amended Credit/Debit Notes (UNRD) tile to add details of amendments to Credit/Debit Notes for supplies to unregistered persons.

 

 

 

b. Select the Financial Year from the drop-down list.

c. In the Credit/Debit Note No. field, enter the credit/debit number which you want to amend from the earlier tax period.

d. Click the AMEND NOTE button.

 

 

e. Make amendments to the details as required.

f. Click the SAVE button to save the invoice details.

 

 

g. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that invoice is saved successfully. Here, you can also edit/delete the amended invoices (under Actions).

h. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5 landing page.

 

 

The 8C.Amendment to Amended Credit/Debit Notes (UNRD) tile will reflect the number of invoices added along with Total Taxable Value, Total Liability and Total ITC available.

Please click the refresh button ( ) on the top of the screen to ensure quick updating of the summary on the tile.

 

10C. Inward supplies liable to reverse charge

a. Click on 10C. Inward supplies liable to reverse charge to select the rate and add the taxable amount. 

 

 

b. A list of tax rates is provided in the table. Enter the taxable value, Integrated tax, Central tax, State/UT tax and Cess.
c. Click the Save button.

 

 

d. A success message will appear.

 

 

The 10C - Inward supplies liable to reverse charge tile will reflect the Total Taxable Value and Total Liability.

Note: Click the refresh button on the top of the screen to for updating of the summary on the tile.

 

Compute Liability

a. Click the COMPUTE LIABILITIES button.

 

b. A message is displayed. You can click on refresh button to update the status.

 

c. Status is changed to Ready to File.

10A,10B. Tax Liability

10A,10B. Tax liability

 

a. Click the 10A,10B. Tax liability tile to view the tax liability details.

Note: This tile will be available after clicking the Compute Liabilities button.

 

 

b. The Tax Liability details are displayed. Click the BACK button to go back to the previous page.

 

11,12,14 - Tax Payable and Paid

a. Click the 11, 12, 14 - Tax Payable and Paid tile. 
Note: Alternatively, you can also click on the PROCEED TO FILE button to proceed filing.

 

 

Note: Click the Download Summary button and view the entered values to ensure the correctness of the entries before clicking on the Proceed to File button.
b. The Payment of Tax table is displayed. The cash ledger balance as available on date is shown in below table.

 

 

c. (a). Scenario 1: If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities.
i. If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then additional cash required to be paid by taxpayer is shown in the "Additional Cash required” column. 
You may directly create challan for payment of remaining part of liability, by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

ii. The Create Challan page is displayed.
Note: In the Tax Payment grid, the Total Challan Amount field and Total Challan Amount (In Words) fields are auto-populated with amount of additional cash required. You cannot edit the amount shown in the challan. 
iii. Select the Payment Modes as E-Payment/ Over the Counter/ NEFT/RTGS.
iv. Click the GENERATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

v. The Challan is generated. 

 

 

Note: 
In case of Net Banking: You will be directed to the Net Banking page of the selected Bank. The payment amount is shown at the Bank’s website. If you want to change the amount, abort the transaction and create a new challan.

In case of successful payment, you will be re-directed to the GST Portal where the transaction status will be displayed.

 

In case of Over the Counter:
Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Pay using Cash/ Cheque/ Demand Draft within the Challan’s validity period. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

In case of NEFT/ RTGS:
Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Mandate form will be generated simultaneously. Pay using Cheque through your account with the selected Bank/ Branch. You can also pay using the account debit facility. The transaction will be processed by the Bank and RBI shall confirm the same within <2 hours>. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

Click here to refer the FAQs and User Manual on Making Payment.

 

c. (b). Scenario 2: If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities.

 

i. If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash payment is required for paying liability.
 

C. Preview GSTR-5

a. Once you have entered all the details, click the DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (PDF) button.

 

 

b. The summary page of Form GSTR-5 is displayed.

Note 1: This button will download the draft Summary page of your GSTR-5 for your review. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections with patience before filing the GSTR-5. The PDF file generated would bear watermark of draft as the return is yet to be filed.

 

 

Note 2:  From August 2024 tax return period onwards following  Summary will be displayed on the screen where , table 6 - Taxable outward inter-state supplies made to unregistered persons (where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh) , table 8A - Amendment Taxable outward inter-state supplies made to unregistered persons (where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh) , table 8B - Debit/Credit notes issued for taxable outward inter-state supplies made to unregistered persons where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh  table 8C - Amendment of Debit/Credit notes issued for taxable outward inter-state supplies made to unregistered persons where invoice value is more than Rs. 1 lakh is updated.

 

D. Payment of Tax

a. Click the Payment of Tax tile.

 

Note: Tax liabilities as declared in the return along with the credits gets updated in the ledgers and reflected in the “Tax payable” column of the payment section. Credits get updated in the credit ledger and the updated balance is available and can be seen while hovering on the said headings of credit in the payment section.

 

 

b. Click the CHECK LEDGER BALANCE button to view the balance available for credit under Integrated Tax, Central Tax, State/UT Tax and Cess. The functionality enables the taxpayers to check the balance before making the payment for the respective minor heads.

 

 

c. The Check Ledger Balance page is displayed. The page lists the minor head wise balance available as in cash ledger and major head wise credit available in Electronic Credit Ledger. Click the OK button to go back to previous page

 

 

d. Please provide the amount of credit to be utilized from the respective available credit heads to pay off the liabilities, so as the cash.

 

Note: If there is no / less balance in Electronic Cash Ledger, create Challan make payment to update the balance in Electronic Cash Ledger. Click here to refer the FAQs and User Manual on Making Payment.

 

While providing the inputs please ensure the utilization principles for credit are well adhered otherwise system won’t allow for offset of liability.

 

e. Click the OFFSET LIABILITY button to pay off the liabilities.

 

Note: Partial payment is not allowed.

 

 

f. The tax liability is offset and a confirmation message is displayed. Click the OK button.

 

E. File GSTR-5

a. Check the declaration box and select the Authorized Signatory from the drop-down. This will enable the FILE GSTR-5 button. Click the FILE GSTR-5 button.

 

 

b. A warning message will appear. Click Yes to continue.

 

c. On the Warning Page, you can choose to File with DSC or EVC.

 

 

FILE WITH DSC:

d1.1. Click the PROCEED button.

 

 

d1.2 Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

FILE WITH EVC:

d.2.1  Enter the OTP sent on the e-mail and mobile phone number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal, and click the VERIFY button.

 

 

e. The success message is displayed. Refresh the page.

Notes:

The status of GSTR-5 changes to Filed.

On filing GSTR-5, notification along with the generated ARN is sent to the Authorized Signatory through e-mail and SMS.

 

f. Click the BACK button.

 

 

Note: Status of the GSTR-5 return changes to "Filed".

 

F. View GSTR-5 Status

a. On the File Returns page, select the Financial Year and Return Filing Period (Month) for which you have just filed Form GSTR-5.

b. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

Note: Status of the GSTR-5 return changes to "Filed".

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[53] Filing Form GSTR-5 – Return for Non-resident Taxable Person - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR-5_FAQ.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Form GSTR-5
1. What is Form GSTR-5?

Form GSTR-5 is a return to be filed by all persons registered as Non- Resident Taxpayer (NRTP).

2. By when do I need to file Form GSTR-5?

Non- Resident Taxpayers need to file return in Form GSTR-5 for the period for which they have obtained registration within a period of seven days after the date of expiry of registration. In case, validity of registration is more than one month, monthly return (s) should be) should be filed by 13th of the month (applicable from October 2022) and 20th of the month(for return periods from July 2017 till Sep 2022) succeeding the tax period or within seven days of closing the business whichever is earlier, as illustrated in the table below:

 

 Due Date to be 20th prior to September, 2022 Tax Period 

 

Sl. No	Date of Registration	Date of Expiry of Registration	Tax Periods for which return(s) to be filed	 Due Date (to be filed within)
1	27th March, 2022	3rd April, 2022	27th March,2022 to 31st March, 2022	10th April,2022
1st April, 2022 to 3rd April, 2022	10th April, 2022
2 	27th March, 2022	23rd April, 2022	 27th March, 2022 to 31st March, 2022	20th April, 2022
1st April, 2022 to 23rd April, 2022	30th April, 2022
3	27th March, 2022 	28th April, 2022	27th March, 2022 to 31st March, 2022	20th April, 2022
1st April, 2022 to 28th April, 2022	5th May, 2022
4	27th March, 2022	11th May, 2022	27th March, 2022 to 31st March, 2022	20th April, 2022
1st April, 2022 to 30th April, 2022	18th May, 2022
1st May, 2022 to 11th May, 2022	18th May, 2022
5	 27th March, 2022	 15th May, 2022	27th March, 2022 to 31st March, 2022	20th April, 2022
1st April, 2022 to 30th April, 2022	20th May, 2022
1st May, 2022 to 15th May, 2022	22nd May, 2022

          

Due Date to be 13th post September, 2022 Tax Period

 

1	27th September, 2022   	23rd November, 2022	27th September, 2022 to 30th September, 2022	13th October, 2022
1st October, 2022 to 31st October, 2022	13th  November, 2022
1st November 2022 to 23rd November, 2022 	30th  November, 2022
2	27th October, 2022	3rd November, 2022	27th October 2022 to 31st  October, 2022	10th  November, 2022
1st November, 2022 to 3rd November, 2022 	10th  November, 2022

 

3. From where can I file Form GSTR-5

Form GSTR-5 can be accessed on the GST Portal, post login in the Returns Dashboard by the taxpayer.

The path is Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard.

4. Is there any Offline Tool for Form GSTR-5?

No, there is no offline tool for Form GSTR-5.

5.  What are the pre-conditions for filing Form GSTR-5?

Pre-conditions for filing of Form GSTR-5 are:

1. Taxpayer should be registered as Non-Resident taxable person during the period for which return is intended to be filed and should have a valid GSTIN.

2. Taxpayer should have valid User ID and password.

6. Is there an Electronic Cash Ledger/ Electronic Credit Ledger/ Tax Liability Register available for Non- Resident Taxpayer?

Yes, Electronic Cash Ledger/ Electronic Credit Ledger/ Tax Liability Register are maintained for Non- Resident Taxpayer also.

7. What happens after Form GSTR-5 is filed?

After Form GSTR-5 is filed:

ARN is generated on successful filing of the Form GSTR-5.

An email is sent to the taxpayer on his registered email id. If taxpayer has provided indian mobile number, they will receive an SMS also.

8. What are the modes of signing Form GSTR-5?

You can file Form GSTR-5 using DSC or EVC.

9. Can I preview the Form GSTR-5 before filing?

Yes, you can preview Form GSTR-5 before filing on the GST Portal. Click the Download Summary (PDF) button to view the filled up GSTR-5 form.

10. How can I claim refund of the balance available in my cash ledger?

NRTP can apply for refund on the portal under the category “Refund of Excess Balance in Electronic Cash Ledger” after discharging all his/her liabilities.  

11. Whether ITC can be availed by taxpayers registered as NRTP?

NRTPs can avail ITC (Input Tax Credit) only on goods imported from overseas but can not avail ITC on local procurements and on import of services from outside India. 

12. Can I make changes in the invoices after submitting Form GSTR-5?

You cannot make any changes to the invoices/CDN once Form GSTR-5 is already filed. You can, however, amend the details of filed invoices/CDN in your subsequent Form GSTR-5. 

13. What happens when Submit button is clicked?

Once the Submit button is clicked, it will freeze all the invoices uploaded in Form GSTR-5 for that particular month. You will be not able to upload any further invoices for that month. 

14. What is the use of Compute Liabilities?

Once the taxpayer has entered the details in all required tables of GSTR-5, they can click on “Compute liabilities” button. On clicking the ‘Compute liabilities’ button, the system will compute the liabilities (Tax, Interest and Late fee).
Note: The reverse charge liabilities will also be computed on clicking of ‘Compute liabilities’ button. 

15. What is the use of ‘Proceed to File’ button?

Once the liabilities are computed, Proceed to File button is enabled to allow taxpayer to pay the liabilities and file Form GSTR-5. Further, on clicking the ‘Proceed to File’ button, the taxpayer will be navigated to the payment table. 

16. Is there any late fee for filing GSTR-5 beyond the due date?

If user files Form GSTR-5 beyond the due date, late fee becomes applicable and will be levied as per below formula:
Filing date – Due Date = No. of days for which late fee is applicable 
No. of days for which late fee is applicable x late fee applicable per day = Late Fee to be paid.

17. Can the documents be added, edited/modified even after clicking of compute liabilities or proceed to file button?

Yes, even after computing liabilities and/or Proceed to file, addition/edition/modification can be done for documents. However, taxpayer will have to click on compute liabilities button again. 

18. Which ledgers/ register are updated when Form GSTR-5 has been filed successfully? 

At time of filing of Form GSTR-5, an ARN is generated and electronic liability register, electronic cash ledger and electronic credit ledger are updated, as applicable.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[54] Filing Form GSTR-5A - Details of supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services (OIDAR) by a person located outside India made to non-taxable persons in India - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR-5A.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Form GSTR-5A
How can I create and file details for the Taxable outward supplies made to consumers in India in the Form GSTR-5A?

To create, submit and file details for the outward supplies in Form GSTR-5A, perform following steps:

A. Login and Navigate to GSTR-5A page

B. Enter Details in various tiles

C. Preview Draft

D. Annexure Draft for GSTR-5A

E. Initiate Filing forGSTR-5A

A. Login and Navigate to GSTR-5A page

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard option. Alternatively, you can also click the Returns Dashboard link on the Dashboard.

 

 

2. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Year for which you want to file the return from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button.

 

3. This page displays tiles representing returns to be filed by the taxpayer along with due date for filing. In the GSTR-5A tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

B. Enter Details in various tiles

 

4. GSTR-5A Details of supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services by a person located outside India made to non-taxable persons online recipient (as defined in Integrated Goods and Services Act, 2017) and to registered persons in India and details of supplies of online money gaming by a person located outside India to a person in India is displayed. There are tiles representing tables to enter relevant details. Click on the tile names to know and enter related details:

4.1 Table 5 - Taxable outward supplies made to non-taxable online recipient in India. - To add details of taxable outward supplies of online information and database accesss or retrieval services made to non-taxable online recipient in India.

4.2 Table 5A - Amendments to taxable outward supplies made to non-taxable online recipient in  India. - To add or amend details of taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services to non-taxable online recipient in India. 

4.3 Table 5B - Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis. - To add details of Taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis.

4.4 Table 5C - Amendments to the taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis. - To add or amend details of taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis.

4.5 Table 5D - Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India. -To add details of Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India.

4.6 Table 5E - Amendments to supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India. -To Amend details of supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India.

4.7 Table 6 - Calculation of Interest or any other amount - To add details of Interest or others.

 

 

 

Note: You can click the HELP button to get the help related to this page.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

4.1 Table 5- Taxable outward supplies made to non-taxable online recipient in India

4.1.1 Click the 5 - Taxable outward supplies made to non-taxable online recipient in India. tile to add details of Taxable outward supplies made to non-taxable online recipient in India.

 

 

4.1.2 A new page ‘5- Taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services made to non-taxable online recipient in India’ is displayed. Click the ADD DETAILS button to add details.

 

 

4.1.3 Select the Place of Supply from the drop-down list. In the Taxable Value field, enter the Taxable Value. In the CESS field, enter the amount of CESS. Select the Rate from the drop-down list and Click the ADD button.

 

 

4.1.4 After adding the details, click the SAVE button.

Note:

•    You can click the EDIT or DELETE button to add or delete the details, if, required.
•    In case there are supplies attracting two or more tax rates for a Place of Supply, click the ADD DETAILS button again to add details.  

 

 

4.1.5 A confirmation message is displayed that data has been saved successfully. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5A Dashboard page.

 

 

4.1.6 You will be directed to the GSTR-5A Dashboard page and the 5 - Taxable outward supplies made to non-taxable online recipient in India tile in GSTR-5A will reflect Total Taxable Value and Total Tax Liability. Similarly, you can add details of POS (State/UT) wise supplies made to consumers during the tax period.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

4.2 Table 5A - Amendments to taxable outward supplies to non-taxable persons in India

4.2.1 Click the 5A - Amendments to taxable outward supplies made to non-taxable online recipient in India tile to add or amend details of taxable outward supplies to non-taxable persons in India related to previously filed Tax periods.

 

 

4.2.1.1 5A - Amendments of taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval service made to non-taxable online recipient in India page is displayed.

 

4.2.2.1 To Add details: To add details of new record to taxable outward supplies to non-taxable persons in India of the earlier Tax periods

4.2.2.2 To Amend details: To amend details of earlier record to taxable outward supplies to non-taxable persons in India of the earlier Tax periods.

 

Note: Only Taxable Value, Rate and CESS fields will be available for amendment.

 

4.2.2.1 To Add details

 

a. Select the Financial Year, Months and Place of Supply (State/UT) from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

b. In the Taxable Value field, enter the taxable value amount. Select the Rate from the drop-down list. In the CESS field, enter the amount of CESS. Click the ADD button.

 

 

c. The records are displayed. Click the SAVE button.

Note: You can also click the DELETE button to delete the added record.

 

 

d. Details are added.

 

 

4.2.2.2 To Amend details:

 

a. Select the Financial Year, Months and Place of Supply (State/UT) from the drop-down list to amend the details of earlier period. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

b. The search results are displayed. Click the Edit button to edit the details.

 

 

c. Once details are edited, click the SAVE button.

 

 

d. Details are added. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5A Dashboard page.

 

 

e. You will be directed to the GSTR-5A Dashboard page and the 5A - Amendments to taxable outward supplies to non-taxable persons in India tile in GSTR-5A will reflect Total Taxable Value and Total Tax Liability.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

4.3 Table 5B- Taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis.

4.3.1 Click the 5B - Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India to add details of Taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis. 

 

 

4.3.2 Click on ADD DETAILS button.

 

 

4.3.3 Enter all the fields and click on + button under the Actions to add details.

 

 

Note a: If you click on ADD button without entering the fields then error message will be displayed.

 

 

b: The length of GSTIN should be equal to 15 digits.

 

 

c: GSTIN should be valid registered no. and shall be in valid format.

 

 

d: Taxable Value can't be zero.

 

 

e: GSTIN should be active, if you try to add inactive GSTIN error message will be displayed.

 

 

f: Supplier and recipient GSTIN should be unique. 

 

 

g: Entered data is displayed you can add more data by clicking on + button under the Actions.

 

 

 

h: you can save upto 10 records in One page and Maximum up to 500 records.

 

 

 

i: You can add suspended GSTIN in the fields.

 

 

 

 

 

j: You can add cancelled GSTIN in the fields.

 

 

k: If you try to add GSTIN which you already added then error message will be displayed.

 

 

l: If you try to add GSTIN which is not registered in the selected period then following error message will be displayed on the screen.  

 

 

4.3.5 Click on Save button to save the data.

 

 

Note: If you click on Back button without saving your data, then an error message is displayed.

 

 

4.3.6 On clicking Save button Data Saved successfully message is displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note: You can search your saved data by adding GSTIN or Taxable Value in the search fields.

 

 

 

4.3.8 Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5A Dashboard page to view 5B - Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India tiles.

 

4.3.9 5B - Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India tile is displayed, it will reflect the Total Taxable Value and Total number of GSTINs you added in 5B.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

4.4 Table 5C- Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India

4.4.1 Click on Table 5-C Amendments to the taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India.- To Amend details of taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis.

 

4.4.1 Click on Table 5-C Amendments to the taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India.- To Amend details of taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis.

 

 

4.4.2 Table 5-C Amendments to the taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis Page is displayed.

 

 

4.4.3 Select financial year and Month from the drop down list and enter GSTIN.

 

 

 

 

 

Note a: If you click on SEARCH button without entering GSTIN field then an error message will be displayed.

 

 

 

b: GSTIN should be active, if you try to add inactive GSTIN an error message will be displayed.

 

 

 

c. The length of GSTIN should be equal to 15 digits.

 

 

d. GSTIN should be valid registered no. and shall be in valid format.

 

 

e. Supplier and recipient GSTIN should be unique

 

 

f. If you try to add GSTIN which is not registered in the selected period then following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

4.4.4 If you enter a valid GSTIN, record is displayed for valid GSTIN.

 

 

4.4.5 Click on Edit button under Action. 

 

4.4.6 Edit details page is displayed.

 

 

4.4.7 You can edit GSTIN and Taxable value with revised values.

 

 

Note a: GSTIN should be active, if you try to add inactive GSTIN error message will be displayed.

 

 

b. The length of GSTIN should be equal to 15 digits.

 

 

c. GSTIN should be valid registered no. and shall be in valid format.

 

 

d: Supplier and recipient GSTIN should be unique.

 

 

e: If you try to add GSTIN which is not registered in the selected period then following error message will be displayed on the screen.  

 

 

f: Taxable Value field can't be empty.

 

 

g: Taxable Value can accept values up to two decimals.

 

 

h: If you click on Back button without saving your records then an error message will be displayed.

 

 

4.4.8 Click on Save button to add the records.

 

 

4.4.9 Saved record will be displayed under Amended Records table.

 

 

Note: You can Edit or Delete the records by clicking on Edit or Delete icon under Actions.

 

 

 

4.4.10 If GSTIN does not have any records, an error message will be displayed.

 

 

4.4.11 If there are no records available, you can add details by clicking on ADD Details button.

 

 

4.4.12 ADD DETAILS fields are displayed, Enter GSTIN and Taxable Values to add the records.

 

 

Note a: Revised GSTIN and Revised Taxable Values is disabled for editing.

 

 

b: GSTIN should be active, if you try to add inactive GSTIN error message will be displayed.

 

 

c. The length of GSTIN should be equal to 15 digits.

 

 

d. GSTIN should be valid registered no. and shall be in valid format.

 

 

e: Supplier and recipient GSTIN should be unique.

 

 

f: You can't add GSTIN which is not registered in the following period.

 

 

g: Taxable Value cannot be empty.

 

 

h: Taxable Value can be zero and can accept values up to two decimals.

 

i: Click on ADD button to add the records.

 

 

j: Added record is displayed in Amended Records table.

 

 

k: If you click on Back button without saving your records then error message will be displayed.

 

 

l: Click on Save button to add the records.

 

 

m: Saved records page will be displayed.

 

 

Note: You can't edit Add Details records.

 

 

Note: If you try to search and edit any records, you can't revise the GSTIN which is already amended.

 

 

4.4.13 You can search any records using GSTIN and Taxable Values.

 

 

 

Note: If data is not available No Record found will be displayed.

 

 

Note: If you try to amend any already Amended record then error message will be displayed.

 

 

4.4.14 Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5A Dashboard page to view 5C - Amendments to the Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India of online information and database access or retrieval services made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis tiles.

 

 

4.3.15 5C - Amendments to the Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India tile is displayed, it will reflect the Total Taxable Value and Total no of GSTIN you added in 5C.

 

4.5 5D- Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India 

4.5.1 Click on 5D- To add details of Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India to add details of Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India.

 

 

4.5.2 5D- Supplies of online gaming made to a person in India page is displayed

 

 

4.5.3 If there is no record error message will be displayed.

 

 

4.5.4 Click on ADD DETAILS to add the records.

 

 

4.5.5 ADD DETAILS form is displayed, enter all the details. 

 

 

Note: If you click on ADD button without entering the records, error message will be displayed.

 

 

Note: Taxable Value can't be zero.

 

 

4.5.7 Enter all the details and click on ADD button.

 

 

4.5.8 Added record will be displayed. 

 

 

Note: You can add more details by clicking on ADD DETAILS button.

 

 

 

4.5.9 Added details is displayed, Click on Save button to save the records.

 

 

Note: If you click on BACK button without Saving the records error message will be displayed.

 

 

4.5.10 Saved details will be displayed. 

 

 

Note a: You can edit details by clicking on edit button under Actions.

 

 

b: Edit details page is displayed. 

 

 

c: You can Edit Taxable Value and CESS others fields are not editable.

 

 

d: Add revised details and click on SAVE button.

 

 

e. On clicking Save button, success message will be displayed with updated details. 

 

 

 

f. You can delete any record by clicking on Delete icon under ACTIONS.

 

 

g: On clicking delete icon, warning message will be displayed, click on PROCEED.

 

 

h: Updated records will be displayed. 

 

 

i: If you try to add new records with same Place of Supply and Rate of Tax then error message will be displayed.

 

 

4.5.11 Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5A Dashboard page to view 5D - Supplies of online money gaming  made to registered persons in India tiles.

 

 

4.5.12 5D- Supplies of online gaming made to a person in India tile is displayed, it will reflect the Total Taxable Value and and Total Tax Liability along with total count of records you added in 5D.

 

4.6 5- E Amendments to Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India 

4.6.1 Click on Amendments to Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India: To add or Amend the details of Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India. 

 

 

4.6.1 5E - Amendments to supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India page is displayed.

 

 

4.6.2 Enter all the fields and click on Search button.

 

 

4.6.3 If there is no records error message will be displayed, Click on ADD DETAILS button to add the records.

 

 

4.6.4 ADD DETAILS page is displayed.

 

 

Note a: If you try to ADD the records without entering and data error message will be displayed.

 

 

b: Taxable Value can be zero

 

 

c: Add record is displayed on the screen.

 

 

d: If you click on BACK button without saving details, error message will be displayed.

 

 

e: Click on SAVE button to save the records.

 

 

f: Added records will be displayed. 

 

 

4.6.5: If you want delete the records, click on delete icon to delete the records.

 

 

4.6.6 On clicking delete icon warning message will be displayed, click on Proceed button to delete the records.

 

 

4.6.7 Click on SAVE button to Delete the records. 

 

 

4..6.8 Record is deleted and new page is displayed.

 

 

4.6.9 For Amending the details, you can enter all the fields.

 

 

4.6.10 Click on Search button, record is displayed.

 

 

4.6.11 Click on edit icon under Actions.

Note: You can only amend Taxable value, Rate and Cess fields.

 

 

Note a: If the Taxable Value and Rate of Tax is same as original records, error message will be displayed.

 

 

b. If you click on ADD without amending any details, error message will be displayed.

 

 

c. SAVE button will be disabled until you make any changes. 

 

 

4.6.12 Edit the records and click on SAVE button.

 

 

4.6.13 Saved record will be displayed.

 

 

4.6.14 Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5A Dashboard page to view 5E Amendments to Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India tile.

 

 

4.6.15 5-E Amendments to Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India tiles is displayed with updated Total Taxable value and Total Tax Liability and total number of Invoices

 

4.7 Table 6 - Interest or any other amount

4.7.1 Click the 6 - Interest or any other amount tile to add interest or any other amount details.

 

 

4.7.2 Select the Place of Supply (State/UT) from the drop-down list. In the Integrated Tax field, enter the interest amount payable. In the Cess field, enter the amount of Cess. Click the SAVE button.

Note:

Click the ADD button again to add interest details related to other Place of Supply.

Click the Others link to add details related to any other amount.

 

 

4.7.3 A confirmation message is displayed that data has been saved successfully.

 

 

4.7.4 Similarly, you can click Others link to add details related to any other amount. Click the BACK button to go back to the GSTR-5A Dashboard page.

 

 

4.7.5 You will be directed to the GSTR-5A Dashboard page and the 6 - Interest or any other amount tile in GSTR-5A will reflect Total Interest and Cess amount.

 

C. Preview Draft for GSTR-5A

5. Click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-5A (PDF) button to preview the draft Form GSTR-5A in pdf format.

 

 

6. Draft is displayed in PDF format of Form GSTR-5A for review.

 

 

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

D. Annexure Draft for GSTR-5A

7. Click the Annexure button to DOWNLOAD GSTR-5A (PDF).

 

 

8. Annexure is displayed in PDF format, you can view 5B and 5C in detail.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

E. Initiate Filing for GSTR-5A

9. Click the PROCEED TO FILE button to initiate filing of Form GSTR-5A.

 

 

10. Once you click PROCEED TO FILE button, 7 - Tax, interest and any other amount payable and paid tile gets enabled. Click the 7 - Tax, interest and any other amount payable and paid tile.

 

 

11. Tax, interest and any other amount payable and paid page is displayed. Click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-5A (PDF) button to preview the draft Form GSTR-5A in pdf format.

Note:

The cash ledger balance as available in the Electronic Cash Ledger is displayed.

The liabilities as payable are displayed. The payment of tax, interest and any other amount (like penalty and arrears) is required to be made by from Electronic Cash Ledger.

The Debit Entry No. and the amount paid details will be updated once the return is filed.

Form GSTR-5A return cannot be filed after making part payment of taxes. It can be filed only after, making full payment of taxes and other liabilities for the return period. In such a case, you can create a challan by navigating to Services > Payments > Create Challan option to add additional amount in order to pay the liabilities and file Form GSTR-5A.

 

 

 

12. Draft is displayed in PDF format.

 

 

13. Select the Declaration checkbox. In the Authorized Signatory drop-down list, select the authorized signatory. Click FILE GSTR-5A button.

 

 

14. A warning message is displayed. Click YES.

 

 

15. Click the FILE \WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button to file GSTR-5A.

 

 

16.1 FILE WITH DSC:

a. Click the PROCEED button. Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

Note: Authentication with DSC can be done if the authorised signatory has a DSC which is issued on an Indian PAN.   

 

16.2 FILE WITH EVC:

a. Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number (Indian number) of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VERIFY button.

 

 

17. The success message is displayed and the status of Form GSTR-5A changes to Filed. Click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-5A (PDF) button to preview the final Form GSTR-5A in pdf format.

Note: After successful filing of the Form GSTR-5A, an acknowledgement is generated and an Email message is sent to the taxpayer and the SMS is also sent on the Indian mobile number of authorized signatory as mentioned in the registration application.

 

 

18. Final Form GSTR-5A in displayed in pdf format.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[55] Filing Form GSTR-5A - Details of supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services (OIDAR) by a person located outside India made to non-taxable persons in India - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR-5A_faq.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Form GSTR-5A
Overview of Form GSTR-5A
1. What is Form GSTR-5A?

Form GSTR-5A is a return to be furnished by Online Information and Database Access or Retrieval (OIDAR) services provider, of the services provided to non-taxable persons, from a place outside India to a person in India.

2. By when do I need to file Form GSTR-5A?

Monthly Return(s) needs be filed by 20th of the month succeeding the tax period to which the return pertains or by the date as may be extended by Commissioner.

3. Who needs to file Form GSTR-5A? Is it mandatory to file Form GSTR-5A?

Non-Resident Online Information and Database Access or Retrieval (OIDAR) services provider needs to file return in Form GSTR-5A. Filing of return is mandatory. Form GSTR-5A needs to be filed even if there is no business activity (i.e. it is a Nil Return) for a tax period.

4. From where can I file Form GSTR-5A?

Login to the GST Portal and click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard option to file Form GSTR-5A.

Pre-Requisites for Filing Form GSTR-5A
5. What are the available modes of preparing Form GSTR-5A?

Form GSTR-5A can be prepared using either of the following modes:

Online entry of data on the GST Portal after log in  

Using third party application of Application Software Provider (ASPs) through GST Suvidha Providers (GSPs) 

6. What are the pre-requisites for filing Form GSTR-5A?

Pre-requisites for filing Form GSTR-5A are:

1. Taxpayer must be registered as an OIDAR services provider and must have a valid GSTIN.

2. Taxpayer must have valid User ID and Password.

7. Can I file Form GSTR-5A for current period, if return for previous period has not been filed?

No, Form GSTR-5A return cannot be filed for the current tax period, if return for the previous tax period has not been filed by the taxpayer.

Form GSTR-5A needs to be filed even if there is no business activity (i.e. it is a Nil Return) for a tax period.

Entering Details in Various Tiles
8. Which details are required to be furnished in Form GSTR-5A?

The taxpayer is required to furnish the Details of supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services by a person located outside India made to non-taxable online recipient (as defined in Integrated Goods and Services Act, 2017) and to registered persons in India and details of supplies of online money gaming by a person located outside India to a person in India in their Form GSTR-5A.

 

The below are the details to be furnished by the respective persons in the respective tables:
•    Table 5 - Taxable outward supplies made to non-taxable online recipient in India. - To add details of taxable outward supplies of online information and database accesss or retrieval services made to non-taxable online recipient in India.
•    Table 5A - Amendments to taxable outward supplies made to non-taxable online recipient in  India. - To add or amend details of taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services to non-taxable online recipient in India. 
•    Table 5B - Taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis. - To add details of Taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis.
•    Table 5C - Amendments to the taxable outward supplies made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis. - To add or amend details of taxable outward supplies of online information and database access or retrieval services made to registered persons in India, other than non-taxable online recipient, on which tax is to be paid by the said registered persons on reverse charge basis.
•    Table 5D - Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India. -To add details of Supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India.
•    Table 5E - Amendments to supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India. -To Amend details of supplies of online money gaming made to a person in India.

Additional Liability & it's Payment
9. How can I discharge interest and any other amount liabilities in Form GSTR-5A?

You can declare interest and any other amount liabilities in Table 6 - Interest or any other amount in Form GSTR 5A. Interest and other liabilities (like penalty and arrears) can be discharged only through Electronic Cash Ledger.

10. Whether Table 7 of Form GSTR-5A is editable?

No, Table 7 of Form GSTR-5A is not editable. Table 7 is auto-populated based on the values entered in Table 5, 5A, 5D, 5E and 6.

Note: Table 7 tile of Form GSTR-5A gets enabled only if the taxpayer clicks the PROCEED TO FILE button.

11. What do I need to do if available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to discharge the liabilities?

Available cash balance as on date in Electronic Cash Ledger is shown to the taxpayer in "Cash Ledger Balance" table. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to discharge the liabilities, then you may create challan for the additional cash by navigating to Services > Payments > Create Challan option.

12. Can I file Form GSTR-5A after making part payment of taxes? 

No, Form GSTR-5A return cannot be filed after making part payment of taxes. In such a case, you can create a challan by navigating to Services > Payments > Create Challan option to add additional amount in order to pay the liabilities and file Form GSTR-5A.

 

Form GSTR-5A can be filed only after, making full payment of taxes and other liabilities for the return period.

13. Can OIDAR services provider claim ITC in Form GSTR-5A?

No, OIDAR services provider cannot claim any ITC in Form GSTR-5A.

14. Is there an Electronic Credit Ledger available for OIDAR taxpayers?

No, there is no Electronic Credit Ledger maintained for OIDAR taxpayers.

Previewing & Filing Form GSTR-5A
15. How can I preview Form GSTR-5A before filing?

After adding details in various section of the Form GSTR-5A, scroll down the page and click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-5A (PDF) button to preview before making filing Form GSTR-5A. The summary of Form GSTR-5A will be displayed in a PDF format. If there is some discrepancy, you can edit the information in the relevant section of the form.

Note: To view complete breakdown of table 5B and 5C you can download Annexure 5A PDF.

16. When will "FILE GSTR-5A" button gets enabled?

File button gets enabled only if you have-

Sufficient balance in electronic cash ledger to pay for the declared tax liability and other liabilities (Interest and Any Other amount)
Clicked on declaration check box and have selected authorized signatory details from the drop-down list.
17. Can I reset Form GSTR-5A after filing?

No, you cannot reset Form GSTR-5A after filing. However you can edit/delete the details till filing of the return.

18. Is there any late fee in case of delayed filing of Form GSTR-5A?

At present, there is no late fee in case of delayed filing of Form GSTR-5A.

Post Filing of Form GSTR-5A
19. What happens after Form GSTR-5A is filed?

After successful filing of the Form GSTR-5A, an Acknowledgement is generated and an Email message is sent to the taxpayer. Also a SMS is sent to the Indian mobile number of authorized signatory as mentioned in the registration application.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[56] Filing Form GSTR-6 - Return for Input Service Distributor (ISD) - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR-6.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Form GSTR-6
How can I create, submit and file details in Form GSTR-6?

To create, submit and file details in Form GSTR-6, perform following steps:

 

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-6 page 
B. Enter details in various tiles
C. File Form GSTR-6 
D. View Consolidated Summary
E. Late Fee
F. File Return

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-6 page

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard command.

Alternatively, you can also click the Returns Dashboard link on the Dashboard.

 

 

2. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Return Filing Period for which you want to file the return from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button.

3. The File Returns page is displayed. This page displays the due date of filing the returns, which the taxpayer is required to file using separate tiles.

In the GSTR-6 tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button if you want to prepare the return by making entries on the GST Portal directly.

Note:

The due date for filing Form GSTR-6 is 13th of every month unless extended.

 

 

4. The GSTR-6 - Return for Input Service Distributor page is displayed.

 

Note: 
•    Validated records imply Successfully Processed records
•    Validated with error imply records that are errored out or processed but have some errors
•    To be validated imply records that system has received for processing but processing is not yet complete
 

Go Back to the Main Menu

B. Enter Details in various tiles

5. There are three sub-headings representing Tables to enter relevant details. Click on the tile names to know and enter related details.

 

Form GSTR-6 Invoice Details:

 

6. Table 3 - Input tax credit received for distribution: To enter details of input tax credit received for distribution.
7. Table 6A - Amendment of information furnished in earlier returns in Table 3: To make amendments to information furnished in earlier returns in Table 3.
8. Table 6B - Credit Notes/ Debit Notes Received: To enter details of credit or debit notes received.
9. Table 6C - Amendment of Credit Notes/Debit Notes received: To make amendments to credit or debit notes received.

 

Form GSTR-6 ITC Distribution:

 

10. Table 5, 8 - Distribution of input tax credit (ISD Invoices & ISD Credit notes): To enter details of distribution of input tax credit for ISD invoices and ISD Credit notes. 
11. Table 9 - Redistribution of ITC distributed in earlier returns - To enter details of ITC available and eligible and ineligible ITC redistributed.
12. Table 4 - Total ITC available and Eligible ITC/Ineligible ITC distributed: To view details of ITC available and eligible and ineligible ITC distributed.

 

GSTR-6 - Other Details:

 

17. Table 10- Late Fee: To view Late Fee details for the return period.
Note 1: This tile can only be accessed after return has been filed.

 

Note 2: ISD cannot enter invoices/debit notes/credit notes of cancelled suppliers having date after the effective date of cancellation of registration of supplier. 

Invoices/debit/credit notes should be dated on or after the date of grant of registration of ISD as well as supplier and before the effective date of cancellation of registration of supplier.

 

Similarly, in case of amendment tables, revised invoices/debit/credit notes should be dated on or after the date of grant of registration of ISD as well as supplier and before the effective date of cancellation of registration of supplier.

 

6. Table 3 - Input tax credit received for distribution

6.1. To view or edit details of input tax credit received for distribution, click the 3-Input tax credit received for distribution tile.

 

 

6.2. Click the ADD MISSING INVOICE DETAILS button to add the invoices.

 

 

6.3. The B2B-Add Invoice page is displayed. Please read carefully message in the top of the page.

6.4. In the Supplier’s GSTIN field, enter the GSTIN of the supplier who supplied the services. As you enter the supplier's GSTIN, Supplier's name is auto-populated and screen is expanded for displaying/entering item-details.

6.5. In the Invoice No. field, enter the invoice number.

6.6. In the Invoice Date field, select the date on which the invoice was issued using the calendar.

6.7. In the POS field, select the place of supply where the supplies were delivered by the supplier. Based on the State/UT selected in POS, Supply Type field is auto-populated.

Note: GST Portal would determine whether it is an Inter-State or Intra-State transaction based on the State/UT where supplier is registered and State that has been selected in POS field.

6.8. In the Total Invoice Value field, enter the total value of invoice for which services are received. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

6.9. The Amount of tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields, against a particular tax rate. However, you can edit the data in amount of tax fields.

 

6.10 (a). In case of Intra-State transaction:

In case the POS (place of supply) of the services is in the same State as that of the supplier, the transaction is an Intra-State transaction.

Note- Fields for Central Tax, State/UT Tax and Cess field only will appear for entry.

i) In the Taxable Value field against the specific rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services.

ii) In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields, against a particular tax rate. However, you can edit the data in amount of tax fields.

 

 

iii). You will be directed to the previous page and invoice is added. Click on the Supplier GSTIN hyperlink to view invoice summary.

 

 

iv). B2B Invoice Summary is displayed.

 

 

6.10 (b). In case of Inter-State transaction:

In case the Place of Supply (POS) is different from the State of the supplier, transaction becomes an Inter-State transaction.

Notice that fields for Integrated Tax and Cess will appear for entry.

i) In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services.

ii) In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields, against a particular tax rate. However, you can edit the data in amount of tax fields.

 

 

iii). You will be directed to the previous page and invoice is added.

Note: You can click the Supplier's GSTIN link under Supplier Details column to view the invoice details.

 

6.11. Click the BACK button to go back to the Form GSTR-6 landing page.

 

 

6.12. The 3-Input tax credit received for distribution tile in Form GSTR-6 will reflect the number of invoices added.

 

 

Go Back to the Main Menu

 

7. Table 9(c) 6A - Amendment of information furnished in earlier returns in Table 3

7.1. To make amendments to information furnished in earlier returns in Table 3, click the 6A - Amendment of information furnished in earlier returns in Table 3 tile.

 

 

 

7.2. Select the Financial Year from the drop-down list.

7.3. In the GSTIN field, enter the GSTIN of the supplier.

7.4. In the Original Invoice No. field, enter the invoice number which you want to amend from the earlier tax period.

7.5. Click the AMEND INVOICE button.

 

 

7.6. You can provide the revised invoice number, revised invoice date, total invoice value, POS and taxable value for the GSTIN. Make amendments to the details as required. Make amendments to the details as required. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

7.7. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that “Request accepted, Subject to validation” successfully.

Note:

a. The status of the amended invoice is shown as Processed and will be visible in “Uploaded by Taxpayer” section.

b. Here, you can also edit/delete the amended invoices (under Actions).

 

7.8. Click the BACK button.

 

 

7.9. You will be directed to the previous page and the 6A - Amendment of information furnished in earlier returns in Table 3 tile will reflect the number of such invoices amended.

 

 

Go Back to the Main Menu

8. Table 6B - Credit Notes/ Debit Notes Received

8.1. To view or edit details of credit or debit notes received, click the 6B - Credit Notes/ Debit Notes Received tile.

 

 

8.2. In the Credit/Debit Notes - Supplier Details page, click the ADD CREDIT NOTE/ DEBIT NOTE button to add a new credit/ debit note.

 

 

8.3. The Credit/Debit Notes - Add page is displayed.

 

Note: Table below shows the difference in Credit/Debit note table before delinking and after delinking of Debit/Credit Note.

 

S. No.

	

Credit/Debit Note Table before delinking of Credit/ Debit Note

	

 

Credit/Debit Note Table after delinking of Credit/ Debit Note

 

1

	

While entering the Credit/ Debit note details, original invoice number and original invoice date were mandatory to be entered.

	

While entering the Credit/ Debit note details or amendment in credit/ debit note details, ISD is not required to enter original invoice number and original invoice date.

2

	

POS field was not available.

	

Entering POS is mandatory.

3

	

Supply type was determined based on Original invoice details.

	

Supply type is determined on the basis of GSTIN of supplier and POS.

4

	

Suppliers were issuing one credit/ debit note for each invoice.

	

Supplier can issue one credit/debit note for multiple invoices.

5

	

Pre-GST checkbox was available.

	

Pre-GST checkbox has been removed.

 

8.4. In the Supplier GSTIN field, enter name of the supplier. Supplier name is auto-populated.

8.5. From the Note Type drop-down list, select whether the details added are for a Credit or Debit Note.

 

 

8.6. In the Note Value field, enter the value of the note.

8.7. In the Credit/Debit Note No. field, enter the credit or debit note number.

Note: A Credit or Debit Note number should be unique for a given Financial Year (FY).

8.8. In the Credit/Debit Note Date field, select the date on which the credit or debit Note was issued using the calendar.

Note: The note date should be before the end date of the tax period.

8.9. From the POS drop-down list, select the POS State/UT based on GSTIN of ISD and place of supply.

 

8.10 (a) In case of Intra-State transaction:

In case the POS (place of supply) of the services is the same State as that of the supplier, the transaction is an Intra-State transaction.

Please note, fields for Central Tax and State/UT Tax appear for entry.

i) In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the services.

ii) In the Amount of Tax field against the rates, enter the amount of tax of the services.

iii) In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

iv) Click the SAVE button to save the note details.

 

 

iii). You will be directed to the previous page and document is added. Click on the Supplier GSTIN hyperlink to view Credit/Debit Note summary.

 

 

iv). Credit/Debit Notes- Summary page is displayed.

 

 

8.10 (b) In case of Inter-State transaction:

In case Place of Supply (POS) is different from the State of the supplier, transaction becomes an Inter-State transaction.

Please note, fields for Integrated Tax and Cess will appear for entry.

i) In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the services.

ii) In the Amount of Tax field against the rates, enter the amount of tax of the services.

iii) In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

iv) Click the SAVE button to save the note details.

 

 

iii). You will be directed to the previous page and document is added.

Note: You can click the Supplier GSTIN hyperlink under Supplier Details column to view the document details.

 

8.11. Click the BACK button to go back to the Form GSTR-6 landing page.

 

 

8.12. The 6B - Credit Notes/ Debit Notes Received tile in Form GSTR-6 will reflect the number of documents added.

 

 

Go Back to the Main Menu

9. Table 9(d) 6C - Amendment of Credit Notes/Debit Notes received

9.1. To make amendments to credit or debit notes received, click the 6C - Amendment of Credit Notes/Debit Notes received tile.

 

 

 

9.2. Select the Financial Year from the drop-down list.

9.3. In the GSTIN field, enter the GSTIN of the supplier.

9.4. In the Original Note No. field, enter the note number which you want to amend from earlier tax period.

9.5. Click the AMEND DOCUMENT button.

 

 

9.6. You can provide the note value, revised credit/debit note number, revised credit/debit note date and POS for the GSTIN. Make amendments to the details as required. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

9.7. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that “Request accepted, subject to validation”.

Note:

a. The status of the amended credit/debit note is shown as Processed and will be visible in “Uploaded by Recipient" section.

b. Here, you can also edit/delete the amended credit/debit note (under Actions).

 

9.8. Click the BACK button.

 

 

9.9. You will be directed to the previous page and the 6C - Amendment of Credit Notes/Debit Notes received tile will reflect the number of such documents amended.

 

 

 

Go Back to the Main Menu

10. Table 9(f) 5, 8 - Distribution of input tax credit (ISD Invoices & ISD Credit notes)

10.1. To view or edit details of distribution of input tax credit for ISD invoices and ISD Credit notes, click the 5, 8 - Distribution of input tax credit (ISD Invoices & ISD Credit notes) tile.

 

 

 

10.2. Click the ADD DOCUMENT button.

 

 

10.3. Select the Eligibility of ITC from the drop-down list.

10.4. Select the Unit Type from the drop-down list.

 

10.5 (a) In case of Registered unit type:

10.5 (b) In case of Un-registered unit type:

 

10.5 (a) In case of Registered unit type:

 

10.5.1. Enter the GSTIN of registered recipient.

10.5.2 Select the ISD Document Type from the drop-down list.

 

a. In case of ISD Invoice:

 

10.5.3. In the ISD Invoice Number field, enter the ISD invoice number.

10.5.4. Select the ISD Invoice Date using the calendar.

10.5.5. In the ISD Credit Distribution section, enter the Integrated Tax, Central Tax, State/UT Tax and Cess.

10.5.6. Click the SAVE button.

Note: In a case where the receiving unit is located in SEZ, then distribution of Input tax credit out of IGST/CGST/SGST/UTGST will be distributed as IGST only irrespective of the SEZ State code.

 

i. If the recipient unit is within the State, the distributed credit is IGST or CGST and SGST/UTGST and the following entry screen will appear in which the details have to be entered.

 

ii. If the recipient unit belongs to another State, the distributed credit is IGST and the following screen is displayed in which the details have to be furnished.

 

 

b. In case of ISD Credit Note:

 

10.5.3. In the ISD Credit Note Number field, enter the ISD credit note number.

10.5.4. Select the ISD Credit Note Date using the calendar.

10.5.5. In the ISD Invoice Number field, enter the ISD invoice number.

10.5.6. Select the ISD Invoice Date using the calendar.

10.5.7. In the ISD Credit Distribution section, enter the Integrated Tax and Cess.

10.5.8. Click the SAVE button.

 

Note: Inter-State or Intra-State will depend on the POS of original ISD invoice against which ISD credit note is being issued. Screenshots have been provided below for reference.

 

 

10.5.8. You will be directed to the previous page and invoice is added under Processed Invoices under Eligible ITC tab. Click on the Recipient details hyperlink to view the processed invoices and credit notes.

 

 

10.5 (b) In case of Un-registered unit type:

 

10.5.1 Enter the State Code of the receiver.

10.5.2. Select the ISD Document Type from the drop-down list.

 

a. In case of ISD Invoice:

 

10.5.3. In the ISD Invoice Number field, enter the ISD invoice number.

10.5.4. Select the ISD Invoice Date using the calendar.

10.5.5. In the ISD Credit Distribution section, enter the Integrated Tax, Central Tax, State/UT Tax and Cess, as the case may be.

10.5.6. Click the SAVE button.

i. If the recipient unit is within State, the distributed credit is CGST and SGST and the following entry screen will appear in which the details have to be entered. It can be IGST also if the credit is to be distributed as IGST.

 

ii. If the recipient unit belongs to another State, the distributed credit is IGST and the following screen is displayed in which the details have to be furnished.

 

 

b. In case of ISD Credit Note:

10.5.3. In the ISD Credit Note Number field, enter the ISD credit note number.

10.5.4. Select the ISD Credit Note Date using the calendar.

10.5.5. In the ISD Invoice Number field, enter the ISD invoice number.

10.5.6. Select the ISD Invoice Date using the calendar.

10.5.7. In the ISD Credit Distribution section, enter the Integrated Tax and Cess.

10.5.7. Click the SAVE button.

Note: Inter-State or intra-State will depend on the POS of original ISD invoice against which ISD credit note is being issued. Screenshots have been provided below for reference.

 

 

10.5.8. You will be directed to the previous page and invoice is added under Processed Invoices > Pending records (These will be added after validation) under Eligible ITC tab.

 

 

Note: Similarly, you need to add the details for Ineligible ITC and this will be reflected under Ineligible ITC tab.

 

10.5.9. Click the BACK button and you will be directed to the previous page and the 5, 8 - Distribution of input tax credit (ISD Invoices & ISD Credit notes) tile will reflect the number of such documents amended.

 

 

 

Go Back to the Main Menu

11. Table 9(g) 9 - Redistribution of ITC distributed in earlier returns

In case the ITC was earlier distributed to a wrong recipient and taxpayer wants to redistribute it afresh:

 

11.1. To enter details of redistribution of ITC available as eligible and ineligible ITC, click the 9 - Redistribution of ITC distributed in earlier returns tile.

 

 

11.2. Select the Financial Year from the drop-down list.

11.3. In the Enter Invoice No. field, enter the invoice number/Credit note number which you want to amend.

11.4. Click the AMEND INVOICE button.

 

 

11.5. Make amendments to the details as required. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

11.6. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that “Request accepted, subject to validation” successfully.

Note:

a. The status of the amended invoice is Processed.

b. Here, you can also edit/delete the amended invoices (under Actions).

 

11.7. Click the BACK button.

 

11.8. You will be directed to the previous page and the 9 - Redistribution of ITC distributed in earlier returns tile will reflect the number of such invoices amended.

 

 

Go Back to the Main Menu

 

12. Table 9(e) 4 - Total ITC available and Eligible ITC/Ineligible ITC distributed

12.1. To view details of Total ITC available and Eligible ITC/Ineligible ITC distributed, click the 4 - Total ITC available and Eligible ITC/Ineligible ITC distributed tile.

 

 

12.2. Click the CALCULATE ITC button.

 

 

12.3. A message is displayed that request has been accepted.

 

 

12.4. The Total ITC available for distribution, Amount of Eligible ITC and Amount of ineligible ITC is displayed.

 

Note: The ITC Details table contains the details from Table 5 & 8. The below (2nd table of the screen shot below) table (Distributed credit reconciliation table) contains details from ITC Details table (1st table of the screen shot below). If credit note is more than the invoice amount in Form GSTR-6, then it will create negative amount in CGST & SGST heads for distribution. However, taxpayer will be able to distribute this amount as IGST, if they have sufficient IGST balance.

For example:-

Credit available in IGST - 5,48,400 INR

Total credit available for distribution – [Sum of IGST=548400, CGST= -18900  & SGST= -18900] = 510600 INR

Total input tax credit available for distribution i.e. 510600 INR only will be bifurcated to the eligible and ineligible credit.

 

Note: Total credit available (IGST+CGST+SGST) for distribution must be equal to total credit distributed (IGST+CGST+SGST).

 

12.5. Enter the Utilization of ITC for distribution under major heads. Click SAVE to save the details.

 

 

12.6. Click OK.

 

 

12.6. will be directed to previous page and the 4 - Total ITC available and Eligible ITC/Ineligible ITC distributed tile in Form GSTR-6 will reflect the total ITC available, eligible ITC and ineligible ITC.

 

 

Go Back to the Main Menu

C. File Form GSTR-6 

13. Click the PROCEED TO FILE button.

 

 

14. A message "Proceed to File is In-Progress. Please check after sometime" is displayed. You can click on refresh button to update the status.

 

 

15. Status is changed to Ready to File. Click the PROCEED TO FILE button.

 

Note: If uploaded invoices are not visible, perform the following steps:
1. Navigate to Table 4 - Total ITC available and Eligible ITC/Ineligible ITC distributed.
2. Click on the Calculate ITC button in the table.
3. Click on the small Refresh button on the right corner in the screen

4. Offset the ITC correctly and click on the Save button.
5. Click on the Back button and go back to the Dashboard.
6. Click on the PROCEED TO FILE button.
7. Click on the small Refresh button on the right corner of your screen.

8. Once the status on the header says - Ready to file, all your invoices will be visible.
Note – Refresh button is required to be clicked twice.

 

 

Go Back to the Main Menu

D. View Consolidated Summary

16. Once you have proceeded to file, CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY of the Form GSTR-6 will be available for review. You can scroll down to review summary of the entries made in different sections before submitting Form GSTR-6. Click the PROCEED button. 
Note: Click BACK TO GSTR-6 DASHBOARD to edit the details in the Form GSTR-6.

 

 

 

Go Back to the Main Menu

 

E. Late Fee

17. After proceeding, Payment of Fee page is displayed. It displays balance available in cash ledger, late fee payable and late fee paid. It also shows if any additional cash is required to pay the late fee.

 

 

18. Select the declaration checkbox. Select the authorized signatory from the Authorised Signatory drop-down list. This will enable the FILE RETURN button.

 

19. Click the FILE RETURN button to proceed filing.19. In case of insufficient balance, “You do not have sufficient cash balance to pay off your liabilities. Kindly add balance by clicking ‘Create Challan’ button and then file the return” message is displayed. Click on CREATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

20. The Create Challan page is displayed.
Note: In the Tax Liability Details grid, the Total Challan Amount field and Total Challan Amount (In Words) fields are auto-populated with total amount of payment to be made. You cannot edit the amount.
21. Select the Payment Modes as E-Payment/ Over the Counter/NEFT/RTGS. Click the GENERATE CHALLAN button. The Challan is generated.
 
Note: 
•    In case of Net Banking (E-Payment): You will be directed to the Net Banking page of the selected Bank. The payment amount is shown at the Bank’s website. If you want to change the amount, abort the transaction and create a new challan. In case of successful payment, you will be re-directed to the GST Portal where the transaction status will be displayed.
•    In case of Over the Counter: Take a printout of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Pay using Cash/ Cheque/ Demand Draft within the Challan’s validity period. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.
•    In case of NEFT/ RTGS: Take a printout of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Mandate form will be generated simultaneously. Pay using Cheque through your account with the selected Bank/ Branch. You can also pay using the account debit facility. The transaction will be processed by the Bank and RBI will confirm the same within <2 hours>. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

Click here to refer the FAQs and User Manual on Making Payment.

 

 

22. Once the payment is done, a confirmation message is displayed. Click the YES button.

 

 

Go Back to the Main Menu

 

F. File Return

23. Click the FILE RETURN button to proceed filing.
Note: Click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-6 button to download the draft summary pdf of Form GSTR-6 for your review.

 

 

 

24. A Warning message is displayed. Click YES to proceed.

 

 

25. Submit Application page is displayed. Click the FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button to file your return. 

 

 

26. The updated Form GSTR-6 page is displayed. The status of Form GSTR-6 is changed to Filed.

Note: 
•    On filing of the Form GSTR-6, notification through e-mail and SMS is sent to the Authorised Signatory.
•    Click on DOWNLOAD FILED GSTR-6 (PDF) button to download the final return copy to your system.
•    Click VIEW SUMMARY button to view consolidated summary of your filed Form GSTR-6.

 

 

Go Back to the Main Menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[57] Filing Form GSTR-6 - Return for Input Service Distributor (ISD) - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR-6_faq.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Form GSTR-6
1. What is Form GSTR-6?

Form GSTR-6 is a monthly return to be filed by all the Input Service Distributors (ISD) for distribution of credit (ITC) amongst its units.

2. Who needs to file Form GSTR-6 and is it mandatory to file this form?

Only those persons who are registered as Input Service Distributor (ISD) need to file Form GSTR-6. It is a mandatory return, to be filed on monthly basis. A ‘Nil’ return must be filed in case of no ITC being available for distribution or no ITC is being distributed during the month.

3. By when do I need to file Form GSTR-6?

ISD Returns for month M can only be filed on or before the 13th of month M+1 or the extended date, if any.

4. From where can I as a taxpayer file Form GSTR-6?

Form GSTR-6 can be accessed on the GST Portal, post login in the Returns Dashboard by the taxpayer.

The path is Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard.

5. Form GSTR-6 comprises of which tables?

Form GSTR-6 comprises of following tables:

 

Form GSTR-6 Invoice Details:

 

1. Table 3: To enter details of input tax credit received for distribution.

2. Table 6B: To enter details of debit or credit notes received.

3. Table 6A: To make amendments to information furnished in earlier returns in Table 3.

4. Table 6C: To make amendments to debit or credit notes received.

 

Form GSTR-6 ITC Distribution:

 

5. Table 4: To view details of ITC available and eligible and ineligible ITC distributed.

6. Table 5, 8: To enter details of distribution of input tax credit for ISD invoices and ISD Credit notes.

7. Table 9: To enter details of ITC available and eligible and ineligible ITC redistributed.

 

GSTR-6 - Other Details:

 

8. Table 10- Late Fee: To view Late Fee details for the return period.
Note: This tile can only be accessed after return has been filed.

6. Can I file my ISD return if my counter-parties have not filed Form GSTR-1/5?

Yes, you can file your Form GSTR-6 return even if your counter-parties have not filed their respective Form GSTR-1 or Form GSTR-5.

7. Is there any Offline Tool for filing Form GSTR-6?

Yes, there is an offline tool for filing Form GSTR-6.

8. Is there any late fee in case of delayed filing of Form GSTR-6?

Yes, there is a late fee prescribed in Law.

9. Is there an Electronic Credit Ledger available for ISD Registrations?

No, there is no Electronic Credit Ledger maintained for ISD Registrants, since ISD has to only distribute credit available during a tax period.

10. As an ISD, am I liable to pay tax on a reverse charge basis? OR Is reverse charge applicable to ISDs?

No. Reverse charge liability is not applicable for an ISD person.

11. How do I allocate credit to my other units in the Form GSTR 6?

Using Table 5 and Table 8 of the Form GSTR-6, both eligible and ineligible ITC can be distributed to the units.

12. Can I amend the credit allocated to the units in Form GSTR 6 of earlier tax periods? If yes, how?

You can distribute the credit through ISD invoice and provide the details in Table 5 and Table 8 of the Form GSTR-6, indicating both eligible and ineligible distribution to the units.

13. Can the date of filing of Form GSTR-6 be extended?

Yes, date of filing of Form GSTR-6 can be extended by Government through notification.

14. What are the pre-conditions for filing Form GSTR-6?

Pre-conditions for filing of Form GSTR-6 are:

· Recipient should be Registered as an ISD and should have an active GSTIN.

· Recipient should have valid login credentials (i.e., User ID and password).

· Recipient should have valid and non-expired/ unrevoked Digital Signature Certificate (DSC which is mandatory for companies, LLPs and FLLPs).

· Recipient should have with them an active mobile number which is indicated in their registration details furnished to GST Portal at the time of registration or amendment thereof for authentication through EVC.

·  Recipient will have an option to file Form GSTR-6 for cancelled GSTINs for the period in which it was active.

15. What happens after Form GSTR-6 is filed?

After Form GSTR-6 is filed:

ARN is generated on successful filing of the Form GSTR-6 Return.

An SMS and an email are sent to the applicant on their registered mobile and email id.

16. What are the modes of signing Form GSTR-6?

You can file Form GSTR-6 using DSC, or EVC.

 

(a) Digital Signature Certificate (DSC)

Digital Signature Certificates (DSC) are the digital equivalent (that is electronic format) of physical or paper certificates. A digital certificate can be presented electronically to prove one’s identity, to access information or services on the Internet or to sign certain documents digitally. In India, DSC are issued by authorized Certifying Authorities. The GST Portal accepts PAN based DSC’s only.

 

(b) Electronic Verification Code (EVC)

The Electronic Verification Code (EVC) authenticates the identity of the user at the GST Portal by generating an OTP. The OTP is sent to the mobile phone number of the registered mobile phone of Authorized Signatory filled in part A of the Registration Application.

17. Can I preview Form GSTR-6 before submitting?

Yes, you can preview Form GSTR-6 before submitting on the GST Portal.

18. I have credit note in CGST & SGST,with no Input Tax Credit available in CGST & SGST, but credit in IGST is available. Hence, credit available for distribution in CGST & SGST is negative, what will be the implications?

If the reversal of Input Tax Credit exceeds the credit available under any of the major head, during a tax period, then sum under such head will become negative. The excess reversal, over available input tax credit is added to the liability. Consequentially the total credit available for distribution will be reduced accordingly.

Total credit available i.e. IGST+CGST+SGST will always be equal to total credit to be distributed (IGST+CGST+SGST), including the liability due to negative credit. Hence, total credit available for distribution will be sum of -

I. Inward supplies received during the month (net of credit/debit notes and amendments of invoices and credit/debit notes).

II. Receipt of credit notes will reduce the ITC available for distribution while receipt of debit notes will increase the same.

III. Availability of ITC, due to issue of ISD credit notes to its units. 

IV. Availability and distribution of Cess will always be the same as it is not cross utilised with any of the major heads.

 

For example:-

Credit available in IGST - 1,08,000 INR

Negative credit available in CGST & SGST - 43,200 INR each (Amount of credit note is more than credit available in CGST & SGST)

Total credit available for distribution – [Sum of IGST=1,08,000, CGST= -43200 & SGST= -43200] = 21600 INR

Total input tax credit available for distribution i.e. 21600 INR only will be bifurcated to the eligible and ineligible credit.

19. Which State code is to be selected as place of supply (PoS) in case of transportation of goods outside India, by a registered taxpayer on behalf of a registered recipient?

In case of supply of services (by a registered taxpayer) by way of transportation or courier of goods to a place outside India, the place of supply is the foreign country outside India (being destination of such goods).

For reporting such transactions, where POS lies in foreign country, the supplier of services (the registered taxpayer) needs to select State code as ‘96-Foreign Country’ from the list of codes.

The registered recipient of services will then be entitled to ITC, though POS lies outside the State of their registration, in case State code 96 is mentioned by of the supplier of services (the registered taxpayer) in their statement of outward supplies.

 

Illustration – Supplier of goods ‘A’ is registered in State ‘X’ in India who has got an order for supply from a foreign country ‘F’. Supplier ‘A’ asked another taxpayer ‘B’ registered in the same State ‘X’ to supply services (couriers etc.) for transportation of goods to the foreign country. Taxpayer ‘B’ will issue invoice in the name of ‘A’ and mention POS as state code 96. Though, both the taxpayers are located in the same State but by virtue of POS as 96, the supply will be taxable under IGST and ITC will be available to taxpayer ‘A’ under IGST head.

20. What would be the type of supply when the State Code is selected as ‘96-Foreign Country’?

Supplies with Place of Supply selected as state code ‘96-Foreign Country’ will always be inter-State supply.

21. In which tables of Form GSTR-6 the State Code as ‘96-Foreign Country’ will be available for selection from the dropdowns?

The state code ’96-Foreign Country’ will be available for selection in the existing list of Place of Supply (POS) drop-down in following tables of Form GSTR-6:

i. B2B (Table 3)

ii. B2B Amendments (Table 6A)

22. What is the difference between Form GSTR-6 before and after delinking of Credit/ Debit Note?

S. No.

	

Form GSTR-6 before delinking of Debit/ Credit Note

	

Form GSTR-6 after delinking of Debit/ Credit Note

1

	

While entering the Debit/ Credit note details, original invoice number and original invoice date were mandatory to be entered.

	

 

While entering the Credit/ Debit note details or amendment in debit/ credit note details, ISD is not required to enter original invoice number and original invoice date.

2

	

POS field was not available.

	

Entering POS is mandatory.

3

	

Supply type was determined based on Original invoice details.

	

Supply type is determined on the basis of GSTIN of supplier and POS.

4

	

Suppliers were issuing one Credit/ Debit note for each invoice.

	

Supplier can issue one Credit/ Debit note for multiple invoices.

5

	

Pre-GST checkbox was available.

	

Pre-GST checkbox has been removed.

23. I have already saved Debit/ Credit note details online, before delinking of Debit/ Credit Note with invoice details, but have not filed the returns. What will happen to such saved Debit/ Credit note details?

If you have saved Credit/ Debit Note details, before delinking of Credit/ Debit Note with invoice details, it will be saved in old format only and the same can be used to submit the details, as it is. (It will appear in new format if you try to edit and save the same again).

Post delinking of Credit/ Debit Note with invoice details, you can edit the saved Credit/ Debit note in post delinking format only (Original Invoice Number and Date will not be available and entering POS is mandatory).

 

Note: In case you are filing the return without editing the saved record, it will be filed in old format only.

24. I have generated the JSON file from old excel utility before delinking of Credit/ Debit Note but have not uploaded on GST Portal. Can I upload the same after delinking of Debit/ Credit Note?

No, you cannot upload the JSON file generated before delinking of Credit/ Debit Note. You need to update the details manually in new offline excel utility again and then generate the new JSON file to upload it onto the GST Portal.

25. I have already filed Form GSTR-6 for a particular tax period before delinking of Credit/ Debit Note. Do I need to file Form GSTR-6 again for that tax period post delinking of Debit/ Credit Note?

If you have already filed Form GSTR-6 for a particular tax period, before delinking of Credit/ Debit Note with invoice details, there is no need to file Form GSTR-6 again, for that tax period.

26. Uploaded invoices  are not visible on Form GSTR-6. How can I proceed to file GSTR-6?

 If uploaded invoices are not visible, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to Table 4 - Total ITC available and Eligible ITC/Ineligible ITC distributed.
2. Click on the Calculate ITC button in the table.
3. Click on the small Refresh button on the right corner in the screen.
4. Offset the ITC correctly and click on the Save button.
5. Click on the Back button and go back to the Dashboard.
6. Click on the PROCEED TO FILE button.
7. Click on the small Refresh button on the right corner of your screen.
8. Once the status on the header says - Ready to file, all your invoices will be visible.

27. What happens if I add invoices/debit notes/credit notes which are dated after the date of cancellation of registration of supplier?

You cannot add invoices/debit notes/credit notes which are dated after the date of cancellation of registration of supplier. They should be dated on or after the date of grant of registration of supplier and before the effective date of cancellation of registration of supplier.

 

Similarly, in case of amendment tables, revised invoices/debit/credit notes should be dated on or after the date of grant of registration of supplier and before the effective date of cancellation of registration of supplier.

28. What happens if I add invoices/debit notes/credit notes which are dated after my registration is cancelled?

You cannot add invoices/debit notes/credit notes which are dated after your registration is cancelled. They should be dated on or after yourregistration grant date and before your registration is cancelled.

 

Similarly, in case of amendment tables, revised invoices/debit/credit notes should be dated on or after your registration grant date and before your registration is cancelled.

29. Will the applicable late fee for a tax period be carried forward to the next period?

Since the filing of form GSTR-6 is now a one step process where Form GSTR-6 is freezed only on filing of return, therefore, the late fee will be of current period only and will not be carried forward to the next period.  

30. What happens in case there is insufficient balance to pay off the liabilities?

In case of insufficient balance, you can add balance by creating challan to pay off your liabilities.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[58] Filing Form GSTR-6 - Return for Input Service Distributor (ISD) - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR-6A.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Viewing Form GSTR-6A
How can I view the auto-drafted details in Form GSTR-6A?

Form GSTR-6A is a read only form. ISD cannot take any action in Form GSTR-6A. Form GSTR-6A for a particular tax period changes, based on the details uploaded by the counter party supplier, till ISD submits the return for the same tax period.

 

Form GSTR-6A will be updated in below scenarios, as explained below:

 

S.No.

	

Scenario

	

For the Return period of

	

Supplier status of Form GSTR-1/5/1A

	

Receiver (ISD) status of Form GSTR-6

	

Details are auto-populated in Form GSTR-6A of the receiver ISD in tax

Period of

1

	

When Receiver (ISD) has not submitted Form GSTR-6 for the month of June 2020, but supplier has already submitted Form GSTR-1/5/1A for June 2020

	

June 2020

	

10-July-2020

	

Not submitted

	

The supplier’s B2B details will be auto-populated in Form GSTR-6A in June 2020 of the receiver ISD (i.e., in current tax period)

2

	

When the supplier submits the Form GSTR-1/5 return before Receiver (ISD) submits the Form GSTR-6 for the period of June 2020

	

June 2020

	

10-July-2020

	

12-July-2020

	

The supplier’s B2B details will be auto-populated in Form GSTR-6A in June 2020 of the receiver ISD (i.e., in current tax period)

3

	

When supplier submits Form GSTR-1/5 return after Receiver (ISD)submits Form GSTR-6 for the period June 2020

	

June 2020

	

10-July-2020

	

06-July-2020

	

The supplier’s B2B details will be auto-populated in Form GSTR-6A in July 2020

of the receiver ISD (i.e., next tax period)

 

To view the auto-drafted details in Form GSTR-6A, perform the following steps:

 

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard option.

Alternatively, you can also click the Returns Dashboard link on the Dashboard.

 

2. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Return Filing Period for which you want to view Form GSTR-6A from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button. GSTR6A tile is displayed.

 

 

3. Download Form GSTR-6A: To download Form GSTR-6A details in excel

4. View Form GSTR-6A: To view Form GSTR-6A details directly on GST Portal

 

Form 3. Download GSTR-6A

 

3.1. In the GSTR6A tile, click the DOWNLOAD button.

 

 

 

3.2. Click the GENERATE EXCEL FILE TO DOWNLOAD button to download GSTR-6A details in excel.

 

 

 

3.3. A message is displayed that request has been acknowledged and the process may take up to 20 minutes to complete.

Note: If number of records are up to 500, Excel file will be generated instantly. However, if number of records are more than 500, the Excel file generation may take up to 20 minutes.

 

 

3.4. Once the file is generated, a download link “Click here to download File” will be enabled below the GENERATE EXCEL FILE TO DOWNLOAD button. Download the file by clicking the link and extract the zip file to the view the details in excel.

 

 

3.5. The excel file is downloaded.

 

Form 4. View GSTR-6A

 

4.1. In the Form GSTR-6A tile, click the VIEW button to view the details directly on GST Portal.

 

 

4.2. The Form GSTR-6A – AUTO DRAFTED DETAILS page is displayed.

 

 

Click the tile names to know more details:

 

5. Input tax credit received for distribution: To view the details of inward supply invoices received from counter-party suppliers, for distribution of ITC to the GSTINs (with same PAN) mapped to the ISD

6. Debit / Credit notes (including amendments thereof) received during current tax period: To view the details of debit or credit notes received from counter-party suppliers, by the ISD, during current tax period

7. Amendments to Input tax credit received for distribution: To view the details of amendment in inward supply invoices received from counter-party suppliers by the ISD

8. Amendments to Debit / Credit notes (including amendments thereof) received during current tax period: To view the details of amendment in debit or credit notes received from counter-party suppliers by the ISD, during current tax period

5. Input tax credit received for distribution

5.1 To view the details of inward supply invoices received from counter-party suppliers, for distribution of ITC to the GSTINs (with same PAN) mapped to the ISD, click the Input tax credit received for distribution tile.

 

 

5.2 Click the hyperlink Supplier/ECO details column to navigate to view B2B Invoice summary.

 

5.3 Click the Invoice No. hyperlink to view the invoice details.

 

 

5.4 The item details are displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

6. Debit / Credit notes (including amendments thereof) received during current tax period

6.1 To view the details of debit or credit notes received from counter-party suppliers, by the ISD, during current tax period, click the Debit / Credit notes (including amendments thereof) received during current tax period tile.

 

 

6.2 Click the hyperlink under Supplier GSTIN/UID column to navigate to view Credit/ Debit note summary.

 

6.3 Click the Credit or Debit Note No hyperlink to view the invoice details.

 

Scenario 1: You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 2: You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 3: You will see the below screenshot, in case you have saved your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes and filed your statements/returns after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

6.4 The item details are displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

7. Amendments to Input tax credit received for distribution

7.1 To view the details of amendment in inward supply invoices received from counter-party suppliers by the ISD, click the Amendments to Input tax credit received for distribution tile.

 

 

7.2 Click the hyperlink under Supplier/ECO details column to navigate to view amended B2B summary.

 

7.3 Click the Invoice No. hyperlink to view the invoice details.

 

 

7.4 The item details are displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

8. Amendments to Debit/Credit Notes received during current tax period

8.1 To view the details of amendment in debit or credit notes received from counter-party suppliers by the ISD, during current tax period, click the Amendments to Debit/Credit Notes received during current tax period tile.

 

 

8.2 Click the hyperlink under Supplier GSTIN/UID hyperlink to navigate to view amended Credit/ Debit note summary.

 

8.3 Click the Credit or Debit Note No hyperlink to view the invoice details.

 

Scenario 1: You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 2: You will see below screenshot, in case you have filed your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

Scenario 3: You will see the below screenshot, in case you have saved your returns/statements before delinking of credit and debit notes and filed your statements/returns after delinking of credit and debit notes on the GST Portal.

 

 

8.4 The item details are displayed.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[59] Filing Form GSTR-6 - Return for Input Service Distributor (ISD) - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR-6A_faq.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Viewing Form GSTR-6A
1. What is Form GSTR-6A?

Form GSTR-6A is a system generated ‘draft’ Statement of Inward Supplies for an ISD (Input Service Distributor). Form GSTR-6A is a read only form. ISD cannot take any action in Form GSTR-6A.

Form GSTR-6A for a particular tax period changes, based on the details uploaded by the counter- party supplier, in their Form GSTR-1.

2. When can I view Form GSTR-6A of a tax period?

You can view Form GSTR-6A of a tax period -

1. When the counterparty has saved/submitted/filed their Form GSTR-1, then the invoices will be available for view in Form GSTR-6A.

2. When the counterparty has only uploaded invoice details, but has not submitted/filed their Form GSTR-1,  then such saved documents will also be available for view in Form GSTR-6A.

3. Do I have to file the Form GSTR-6A?
you don’t have to file the Form GSTR-6A. It is a read-only document provided to you so that you have a record of all the invoices received from various supplier taxpayers in a given tax period.
4. Can I make changes to or add an invoice in my Form GSTR-6A in case there are any errors or omission in the details uploaded by my supplier taxpayers?
you cannot make any changes to the Form GSTR-6A, as it is a read-only document.  The information displayed in Form GSTR-6A is also available in Form GSTR-6 and any/all actions must be taken in the GSTR-6 by the receiver.
5. Which details are available in Form GSTR-6A?

The details available in Form GSTR-6A are:

Input tax credit received for distribution - To view the details of inward supply invoices received from counter-party suppliers, for distribution of ITC to the GSTINs (with same PAN) mapped to the ISD
Debit / Credit notes (including amendments thereof) received during current tax period - To view the details of debit or credit notes received from counter-party suppliers, by the ISD, during current tax period
Amendments to Input tax credit received for distribution - To view the details of amendment in inward supply invoices received from counter-party suppliers by the ISD
Amendments to Debit/Credit notes received during current tax period - To view the details of amendment in debit or credit notes received from counter-party suppliers by the ISD, during current tax period
6. Form GSTR-6A will be updated in which scenarios?

Form GSTR-6A will be updated in below scenarios, as explained below:

S.No.

	

Scenario

	

For the Return period of

	

Supplier status of Form GSTR-1/5

	

Receiver (ISD) status of Form GSTR-6

	

Details are auto-populated in Form GSTR-6A of the receiver ISD in tax

Period of

1

	

When Receiver (ISD) has not submitted Form GSTR-6 for the month of June 2020, but supplier has already submitted Form GSTR-1/5 for June 2020

	

June 2020

	

10-July-2020

	

Not submitted

	

The supplier’s B2B details will be auto-populated in Form GSTR-6A in June 2020 of the receiver ISD (i.e., in current tax period)

2

	

When the supplier submits the Form GSTR-1/5 return before Receiver (ISD) submits the Form GSTR-6 for the period of June 2020

	

June 2020

	

10-July-2020

	

12-July-2020

	

The supplier’s B2B details will be auto-populated in Form GSTR-6A in June 2020 of the receiver ISD (i.e., in current tax period)

3

	

When supplier submits Form GSTR-1/5 return after Receiver (ISD)submits Form GSTR-6 for the period June 2020

	

June 2020

	

10-July-2020

	

06-July-2020

	

The supplier’s B2B details will be auto-populated in Form GSTR-6A in July 2020

of the receiver ISD (i.e., next tax period)

7. Can I as a taxpayer download and keep a copy of my Form GSTR-6A for future reference?

After logging into GST Portal, you can view Form GSTR-6A and/or download the same in an Excel format.

8. What is the impact of Debit/ Credit Note on Form GSTR-6A, before and after its delinking with invoices?

S. No

	

Before Delinking of Debit/ Credit Note with invoices

	

After Delinking of Debit/ Credit Note with invoices

1

	

Original invoice number and original invoice date were auto-drafted

	

Original invoice number and original invoice date fields are not visible for entry.

2

	

POS field was not required as the same was derived from original invoice. Hence, POS was not provided.

	

POS field is a mandatory field for entry and is visible for entry.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[60] Filing Form GSTR-7 - Return for Tax Deducted at Source - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/gstr7online

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Filing Form GSTR-7 - Return for Tax Deducted at Source
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[61] Filing Form GSTR-7 - Return for Tax Deducted at Source - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR7_Manual.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > GSTR-7
How can I create and file details in Form GSTR-7?

To create and file details in Form GSTR-7, perform following steps:

 

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-7 page

B. Enter details in various tiles

C. Payment of Tax

D. File Form GSTR-7 with DSC/ EVC

E. View Debit entries in Electronic Cash Ledger for tax payment

F. Download Filed Return

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-7 page

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard command.

Alternatively, you can also click the Returns Dashboard link on the login Dashboard.

 

 

2. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Return Filing Period (Month) for which you want to file the return from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button.

 

3. The File Returns page is displayed. In the GSTR-7 tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button if you want to prepare the return by making entries on the GST Portal.

Note: Please read the important message in the box carefully.

 

 

4. The GSTR-7 - Return for Tax Deducted at Source Return page is displayed.

 

Note: From September 2025 return period onwards:

(i) The Important Message screen has been updated. It mentions that after adding the details in Table 3 and Table 4, you must click on the GENERATE SUMMARY button, which has replaced the earlier 'Compute Liability' option.

 

Click on the PREPARE ONLINE button to proceed.

 

 

(ii) You will be redirected to GSTR-7 dashboard where the points of "Steps to file your GSTR-7 return" are also updated and Generate Summary button has been introduced. 

 

 

(iii) For return periods before September 2025, you will be able to view COMPUTE LIABILITY button. 

B. Enter details in various tiles

Click on the tile names to know more and enter related details:

 

5 (a) 3. Details of the tax deducted at source: To add details of the tax deducted at source

5 (b) 4. Amendments to TDS Details: To amend details of the tax deducted at source in respect of any earlier tax period

 

5(a) 3. Details of the tax deducted at source

Prior to September 2025 return period onwards:

 

5.1. Click the 3. Details of the tax deducted at source tile to add details of the tax deducted at source.

 

 

5.2. Click the ADD button.

 

 

Note: You can click the HELP link to view Help related to this page. Click CLOSE.

 

 

5.3. In the GSTIN of Deductee field, enter the GSTIN of Deductee.

5.4. Enter the amount paid to deductee on which tax has been deducted.

5.5 (a). If deductor and deductee are having different State-code, then you need to enter the details for Integrated Tax.

 

Note: If GSTIN of supplier and POS is different, then TDS will be deducted in the form of IGST. If GSTIN of supplier and POS is same, then TDS is deducted in the form of CGST/SGST. If POS lies in the State of Supplier and deductor is located in another State/UT, then no TDS will be deducted, as the tax on the invoice will be CGST and SGST/UTGST and not IGST.

 

Note:

Declare details of TDS for each Deductee. Tax is to be deducted on the value excluding tax.

GSTIN of the deductee cannot be declared more than once.

Negative values are not allowed to be declared in this table.

Tax should be entered in at least one tax column out of three tax columns (IGST or CGST and SGST/UTGST). Total tax amount should be equal to 2% of the amount shown as "Total amount paid to deductee on which tax is deducted".

 

 

5.5 (b) If deductor and deductee both are having same State-code, then GST Portal will allow entry of all the 3 taxes, IGST/CGST/SGST.

Note: If Deductor and deductee are located in SEZ, then the IGST need be levied irrespective of place of supply. At least one tax column need to be entered out of three tax columns (Integrated Tax, Central Tax and State/UT Tax).

 

 

 

5.6. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

5.7. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that TDS details added successfully. You need to give separate entries of TDS details for each of the deductee.

Note: You can view certain number of records by selecting a number from Records to view per page drop-down list. You can also search any record by providing GSTIN or Trade/Legal name of deductee.

5.8. Here, you can also edit/delete the added details (under Actions column). Click the BACK TO GSTR-7 Dashboard button to go back to the Form GSTR-7 Dashboard page.

 

 

5.9. You will be directed to the GSTR-7 Dashboard landing page and the 3. Details of the tax deducted at source box in Form GSTR-7 will reflect the number of TDS entries added along with total tax amount and total amount paid to Deductee.

 

 

From September 2025 return period onwards:

 

5.10. Click on the 3. Details of the tax deducted at source tile to add details of the tax deducted at source.

 

 

5.11. Click on the ADD button to add a new invoice.

 

 

Note: You can click on the HELP link to view Help related to this page. Click on the CLOSE button.

 

 

5.12. Upon clicking the ADD button, below new mandatory fields will be displayed in Table 3:

Invoice/ document no.
Invoice/ document date (DD/MM/YYYY)
Invoice/ document value (₹)

 

 

 

Note 1: Invoice number should only contain special characters '/' and '-'. If you enter any other special character, the following error message is displayed.

 

 

Note 2: In the Invoice/document date field, the calendar will be enabled only upto the selected return period month. You are not allowed to enter any invoice/document date beyond the selected return period.

 

There is no time limit for adding invoices from previous financial years. However, the system will not accept invoice dates earlier than 1st July 2017 or the taxpayer’s GST registration date.

 

   

 

Note 3: If total tax amount entered in IGST or CGST and SGST/UTGST is greater than the amount entered in 'Amount paid to deductee on which tax is deducted', the following error message is displayed on clicking of SAVE button.

Hence, the total of the tax amounts should not exceed the amount paid to deductee.

 

 

Note 4: In Table 3, if you try to save an invoice with zero/blank amount fields, the following error message will be displayed after clicking the SAVE button.

 

 

Note 5: If the same Invoice/document no. with same deductee GSTIN is repeated for the same period/month, the following error message is displayed.

 

 

5.13. Once all the mandatory fields are filled, click on the SAVE button.

 

 

5.14. Upon clicking the SAVE button, the following message is displayed.

 

Note: After saving the details, you will remain on the same page. To add more invoices under the same GSTIN, simply enter the details on this page. If you want to view the invoice summary, click on the Back button.

 

5.15. On the click of Back button, TDS Record Details page is displayed where you can view GSTIN wise count of invoices processed and pending.

 

You can click on the ADD GSTIN button to add invoices under new GSTIN.

 

 

Note 1: Taxpayer can click on the plus icon (+) under ADD Invoice heading to add new invoice under the same GSTIN. The GSTIN will be be auto-populated while adding the invoice details.

 

 

 

Note 2: When the number of suppliers (GSTINs) exceeds 100, the "Add" button for new invoices will not be visible. In such cases, deductors are advised to use the offline tool to continue adding invoices.

 

Note 3: You can click on the HELP link to view Help related to this page. Click on the CLOSE button.  

 

 

5.16. Click on the hyperlink in Processed Records column to view a table of all processed invoices under a GSTIN. 

 

 

 

5.17. You will be navigated to a list of processed invoice wise summary page which have been added under a GSTIN.

By default, you can view 5 invoices per page. This can be increased to a maximum of 35 invoices by selecting the desired option from the “Records to view per page” dropdown. If the total number of invoices exceeds the selected per-page limit, pagination will be enabled to allow users to navigate through the remaining records.

 

You can click on the edit icon to edit the individual invoice and delete icon to delete the individual invoice. Click on the ADD INVOICE to add new invoice under the same GSTIN.

 

 

Note 1: You can click on the HELP link to view Help related to this page. Click on the CLOSE button.  

 

 

Note 2 (i): You can search the data by entering details in the Search bar. Only numbers (0-9), characters (A-Z), space, special characters (/-) and date in DD/MM/YYYY format are allowed. 

 

 

(ii) To search for records by month, the taxpayer must enter the corresponding month number (e.g., 06 for June) in the search field instead of the month name.

 

 

(iii) If you try to search the records by entering the month name, the following error will be displayed.

 

 

5.18. Click on the Invoice No. hyperlink to view the individual invoice in read only mode.

 

 

5.19. Once all the invoices are added, click on the BACK TO GSTR-7 DASHBOARD button in the TDS record details page.
 

5.20. Click on the GENERATE SUMMARY button to save details in Table 3.

 

 

5.21. A successful message appears on the screen, click on the refresh icon to view the changes in Table 3.

 

 

 

5.22. The status changes to Ready to File. Table 3 tile will be updated and PROCEED TO FILE button will be enabled.

 

 

Note: However, if you log out without filing and tries to file it later, then you need to again click on GENERATE SUMMARY button to re-generate the summary on the tile and to re-enable PROCEED TO FILE button.

5(b) 4. Amendments to TDS Details

Prior to September 2025 return period:

 

5.1. Click the 4. Amendments to TDS Details box to amend details of the tax deducted at source in respect of any earlier tax period and also to modify TDS details rejected by deductee.

 

 

 

Note: From September 2025 return period onwards, the following screen will be displayed.

 

 

 

 

5.2 (a) Uploaded By Deductor Tab:

5.2 (b) Rejected By Deductee Tab:

5.2 (a) Uploaded By Deductor Tab:

In Uploaded by Deductor tab, you can amend transactions uploaded by Deductor, of previous tax period. If no action has been taken by deductee, action can be taken by the deductor (to amend transactions), on their own under "Uploaded by deductor" tab.

Note:

Any changes to the details declared in Table-3 (TDS details) in earlier tax period(s) may be declared in Table-4.

No amendment is allowed, once the TDS details are accepted by the Deductee.

Records rejected by Deductee are available for taking action in the Tab ‘Rejected by Deductee’ in table 4.

Original tax period, financial year and original Deductee’s GSTIN cannot be edited.

Deductor can amend the GSTIN of Deductee, Revised amount paid to deductee and IGST, CGST & SGST tax columns.

 

Prior to September 2025 return period:

 

5.2. Select the Financial Year and Month from the drop-down list. In the GSTIN field, enter the GSTIN of the Deductee of previous tax period which needs to be amended. Click the AMEND TDS DETAILS button.

 

 

5.3. Make amendments to the details as required. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

5.4. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that TDSA details added successfully. Here, you can also edit/delete the amended details (under Actions column). You can click the BACK TO GSTR-7 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-7 Dashboard page.

 

 

Note: Scroll to the right to view further details.

 

 

5.5. You will be directed to the GSTR-7 Dashboard page and the 4. Amendments to TDS Details tile in Form GSTR-7 will reflect the sum of number of TDSA entries added by the deductor on his own & modified in respect of the rejected details by deductee, along with total tax amount and total amount paid to deductee.  

 

Note: The Amended TDS details will become available to supplier on his/her dashboard for acceptance or rejection of the same on filing of Form GSTR-7 by the deductor.

 

 

 

From September 2025 return period onwards:

 

5.6. Select the Financial Year, Month and enter GSTIN for which invoices are to be amended. Click on the AMEND TDS DETAILS button.

 

 

 

5.7 A new “TDSA Details” table will be displayed with a list of all original invoices on which no action has been taken by Deductee in TDS and TCS Credit Received.

 

 

Note: By default minimum 5 invoices will be visible in this table. You can view maximum 35 invoices on one page. If number of amended invoices and records exceed the maximum permissible limit per page, pagination facility will be enabled on this page.

 

5.8. Amendment table of the selected invoice will appear. Here, all original data fields will be non-editable while all revised fields will be editable.

 

 

Note 1: Revised invoice number should contain no special characters except '/' and '-'. If you enter any other special character, the following error message is displayed.

 

 

Note 2: In the Revised Invoice/document date field, the calendar will be enabled only upto the selected return period month. You are not allowed to enter any invoice/document date beyond current return period.

 

  

 

Note 3: If total tax amount entered in IGST or CGST and SGST/UTGST is greater than the amount entered in 'Revised Amount paid to deductee on which tax is deducted', then the folllowing error message is displayed on clicking of SAVE button.

Hence, the total of the tax amounts should not exceed the revised amount paid to deductee.

 

 

 

Note 4: If you try to amend the records in original tax heads, a warning message is displayed prompting you to re-confirm the tax heads. However, this will not block you from proceeding, you can still click on the SAVE button to continue.

 

 

 

 

5.11. After amending the record, you will be redirected to the Processed TDSA Details page. Here, you can view a consolidated list of all invoices saved and processed under different GSTINs in one table. 
 

 

 

 

Note 1 (i): You can also search any record by providing GSTIN or Trade/Legal name of deductee. Only numbers, characters, space, special characters (/-) and date in DD/MM/YY format are allowed.

 

 

(ii) To search for records by month, the taxpayer must enter the corresponding month number (e.g., 06 for June) in the search field instead of the month name.

 

 

(iii): If you try to search the records by entering the month name, the following error will be displayed.

 

Note 2: You can click on the HELP link to view Help related to this page. Click on the CLOSE button.

 

 

 

5.12. Click on the edit icon to make changes to the already saved amended invoice.
 

 

5.13. Using the editing option, you can only make changes in the below fields:

a) Revised Amount paid to deductee
b) Revised Invoice/ document value (₹)
c)  IGST (₹)
d) CGST (₹)
e) SGST/UTGST (₹)

 

While below Revised fields will be disabled during edit:

a) Revised GSTIN of Deductee 
b) Revised Invoice/ document no.
c) Revised Invoice/ document date (DD/MM/YYYY)

 

To edit these three disabled fields, taxpayer needs to delete the amended invoice and repeat all steps of amendment from scratch.

 

 

 

Note 1: If you try to amend the tax heads to zero, a warning message is displayed prompting you to re-confirm the tax heads. However, this will not block you from proceeding, you can still click on the SAVE button to continue.

 

 

 

 

Note 2: After amending the record, if you click on the SAVE button, you will be navigated to Processed TDSA Details page.

 

If you click on the BACK button without saving the amendments, system will navigate to TDSA Details page where old saved and processed invoices/records will be visible.

 

 

Note 3: The TDSA details table will display records that have not yet been amended while the Processed TDSA details table will show all records that have been successfully amended.

 

 

 

Note 4 (i): If you attempt to amend records using a duplicate Revised Invoice/document number, the record will be moved to the Pending TDSA Details table and the status will be displayed as "Processed with error".

 

 

 

 

(ii). On clicking the edit icon of pending TDSA record, the below message is displayed.

 

 

Note 5: If all invoices under a specific GSTIN have been amended, the following error message will be displayed upon clicking the AMEND TDS DETAILS button.
 

 

Note 6: For a particular GSTIN, if the Deductee has already taken action by rejecting the record and filing TDS and TCS Credit Received, the following error message will be displayed upon clicking the AMEND TDS DETAILS button. 

 

5.2 (b) Rejected By Deductee Tab:

If TDS credit entries are rejected by the deductee, they will be auto-populated into Table 4 of Form GSTR-7 in the next tax period under ‘Rejected by Deductee’ tab. Now TDS deductor can amend those details and file Form GSTR-7 accordingly.

 

Prior to September 2025 return period:

 

5.2. Select the Rejected By Deductee tab.

 

 

5.3. Click the EDIT button to edit the details.

 

 

5.4. Edit the details. Deductor can amend the GSTIN of Deductee, Revised amount paid to deductee and all tax columns. Click the SAVE button.

 

Note: You can edit only revised details and cannot edit original details of the deductee.

 

 

5.5. Once the details are edited, the status is changed to modified. Click the BACK TO GSTR-7 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-7 Dashboard page.

 

Note: You can view certain number of records by selecting a number from Records to view per page drop-down list. You can also search any record by providing GSTIN or Trade/Legal name of deductee.

 

 

5.6. You will be directed to the GSTR-7 Dashboard page and the 4. Amendments to TDS Details tile in Form GSTR-7 will reflect the sum of number of TDS entries added & modified the details rejected by deductee, along with difference of amended amount and original amount is displayed.

 

Note 1: If any rejected records are visible in Table 4 of GSTR-7 then the taxpayer will not be allowed to delete any rejected records and file Nil GSTR-7. Taxpayer will be required to take appropriate action on the rejected records and then proceed with the filing of GSTR-7. 

 

Note 2: Once Form GSTR-7 is filed, all edited details will become available to the deductee (supplier) on his/her dashboard for acceptance or rejection.

 

 

Note: Similarly, you can edit other records.

 

From September 2025 return period onwards:

 

5.7. Below additional fields will be visible in Processed TDSA Details table of rejected invoices from Sept'25 return period onwards:

Original Invoice/ document number
Revised Invoice/ document number

 

 

 

5.8. Click on the EDIT button to edit the details.

 

 

5.9. By default both Original and Revised fields will be auto-populated with last amended data (If there are no last amended details then original data will auto-populate in all fields). 

 

Note: You are not allowed to edit only the revised details and all tax-related columns. The original details of the deductee cannot be modified.

 

 

Note 1: Invoice number should only contain special characters '/' and '-'. If the taxpayer enters any other special character, the following error message is displayed.

 

 

Note 2: In the Revised Invoice/document date field, the calendar will be enabled only upto the selected return period month. You are allowed to enter any invoice/document date beyond current return period.

 

  

  

 

There is no time limit for adding invoices from previous financial years, especially in cases of partial payments. However, the system will not accept invoice dates earlier than 1st July 2017 or the taxpayer’s GST registration date.

 

Note 3: If total tax amount entered in IGST or CGST and SGST/UTGST is greater than the amount entered in 'Amount paid to deductee on which tax is deducted', then the following error message is displayed on clicking of SAVE button.

Hence, the total of the tax amounts should not exceed the amount paid to deductee.

 

 

Note 4: If you try to amend the original tax heads to any value, a warning message is displayed prompting you to re-confirm the tax heads. However, this will not block you from proceeding, you can still click on the SAVE button to continue.

 

 

Note 5: If you try to amend the original tax heads to zero, a warning message is displayed prompting you to re-confirm the tax heads. However, this will not block you from proceeding, you can still click on the SAVE button to continue.

 

 

5.10. Once the details are edited, the status is changed to modified.

 

 

 

Note: Using the delete icon, you can delete the amendment made in the rejected invoices saved. On clicking the PROCEED button, the original amount will come back and the status changes back to No Action Taken. 

 

 

 

 

 

Note: Prior to the September 25 return period, you cannot delete amendments made to rejected invoices; only editing of details is allowed.

 

5.11. Click on the BACK TO GSTR-7 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-7 Dashboard page.

 

5.12. You will be directed to the GSTR-7 Dashboard page and the 4. Amendments to TDS Details tile in Form GSTR-7. You need to click on the GENERATE SUMMARY button to save the added & modified the details rejected by deductee.

 

 

5.13. Table 4 tile in GSTR-7 dashboard will be updated and PROCEED TO FILE button will be enabled. 
 

 

C. Payment of Tax

Prior to September 2025 return period:

 

6. Click on the COMPUTE LIABILITY button for computation of tax liability and interest, if any.

 

 

Note:

a.    If taxpayer is trying to file GSTR-7 for a period/ month without filing GSTR-7 of past period/month(s), then following error message will be displayed on the screen.
b.    The sequential filing of GSTR-7 will be starting from the month of October 2024 (which will be filed in November 2024) and onwards. If deductor has no saved records in GSTR-7 of old period prior to October 2024, then system will not force the taxpayer to do sequential filing of old periods prior to October 2024. 
 

 

c.    On filing of GSTR-7 for subsequent period, the data will be auto-populated in TDS and TCS Credit Received form of same tax period or next open tax period. If TDS and TCS Credit Received form of any period has Nil/no records, then it will be deemed to be filed. Hence, Nil filing of TDS and TCS Credit Received form will not be allowed to be filed. 

 

7. A message is displayed on top page of the screen that 'Compute liabilities request' has been received. Please check the status after sometime. Click the Refresh button.

 

 

Note: No late fee will be computed for delayed filing of Nil GSTR-7 from October 2024 return period. Nil GSTR-7 will be filed only if no entry exists in Table 3 and 4. Taxpayer can file Nil GSTR-7 for a tax period/ month in which neither TDS is deducted by the deductor (i.e. no records are there in Table 3) nor any records (including rejected records) are visible in Table 4. 
 

8. Once the status of Form GSTR-7 is Ready to File, 5 & 6. Payment of Tax tile and PROCEED TO FILE button gets enabled. Click the 5 & 6. Payment of Tax box or PROCEED TO FILE button.

 

Note1: When details are auto populated in table 4 under 'rejected by deductee' tab, while revising those records, if tax liability is increased, then interest will only be levied on the increased tax amount. 

 

 

Note2:
•    In case of offline filing of Form GSTR-7, if uploaded JSON file has errors, a link to "View the error(s) on Compute liabilities" is displayed.

 

 

Note3:

•    After clicking the link, Error report on compute liabilities page will be displayed. You can view the error message and follow the instruction to proceed with filing. 
 

 

9.1. The cash balance available in the electronic cash ledger as on date are shown in below table.

Note:

Liabilities can be paid in cash only.

'Create challan' button will be enabled for selection only if sufficient cash is not available in Electronic Cash Ledger.

Declaration and Authorized signatory fields will be enabled only if sufficient cash balance is available to offset the liabilities.

 

 

9.2 (a). Scenario 1: If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, available cash balance is shown to be as utilized from the Electronic Cash Ledger. You may create challan for the additional cash directly by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

ii. The Create Challan page is displayed.

Note: In the Tax Liability Details grid, the Total Challan Amount field and Total Challan Amount (In Words) fields are auto-populated with total amount of payment to be made. You cannot edit this amount.

iii. Select the Payment Modes as E-Payment/ Over the Counter/ NEFT/RTGS.

iv. Click the GENERATE CHALLAN button.

v. The Challan is generated.

 

Note: 

In case of Net Banking: You will be directed to the Net Banking page of the selected Bank. The payment amount is shown at the Bank’s website.

In case of successful payment, you will be re-directed to the GST Portal where the transaction status will be displayed.

 

In case of Over the Counter:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Pay using Cash/ Cheque/ Demand Draft within the Challan’s validity period. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

In case of NEFT/ RTGS:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Mandate form will be generated simultaneously. Pay using Cheque or through your account with the selected Bank/ Branch. You can also pay using the account debit facility. The transaction will be processed by the Bank and RBI shall confirm the same within <2 hours>. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

Click here to refer the FAQs and User Manual on Making Payment.

 

9.2 (b). Scenario 2: If available cash balance in Electronic cash ledger is more than the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than or equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash is required for paying liability.

 

Note: You can click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-7 DETAILS (EXCEL) button to view the summary page in excel format or click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-7 button to view the summary page of Form GSTR-7 for your review.

 

 

Note: From September 2025 return period onwards, the process for filing will remain the same as explained from 9.1.

 

D. File Form GSTR-7 with DSC/ EVC

For all the return periods:

 

10. Select the Declaration checkbox. Select the Authorized Signatory from the drop-down list. Click the FILE GSTR-7 button.

 

 

 

11. Click the YES button.

 

 

12. The Submit Application page is displayed. Click the FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button.

 

 

12.1. FILE WITH DSC:

a. Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

12.2. FILE WITH EVC:

a. Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VALIDATE OTP button.

 

 

13. The success message is displayed and ARN is displayed. Status of the GSTR-7 return changes to "Filed". Click the BACK button.

 

 

E. View Debit entries in Electronic Cash Ledger for tax payment

14. Click the Debit entries in electronic cash ledger for TDS/interest payment tile to view the reference ID through which the amount has been debited in electronic cash ledger.

 

 

Note: From September 2025 return period onwards, the following screen will be displayed.

 

 

 

15. The entries in Electronic Cash Ledger for tax payment is displayed. Click the BACK TO GSTR-7 TILES button.

 

 

F. Download Filed Return

Prior to September 2025 return period:

 

16. Click the DOWNLOAD FILED GSTR-7 button to download the filed return. You can also download filed details as an excel file by clicking on DOWNLOAD GSTR-7 DETAILS (EXCEL) button.

 

 

17. The PDF file generated would now bear watermark of final Form GSTR-7.

 

 

Note: From September 2025 return period onwards, the following screen will be displayed.

 

 

a. Click on the Download GSTR-7 DETAILS (EXCEL) button to download the filed GSTR-7 in the excel format. The following Excel format will be displayed.

 

 

 

 

b. Click on the Download FILED GSTR-7 button to download the filed GSTR-7 in the PDF format. The following PDF format will be displayed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[62] Filing Form GSTR-7 - Return for Tax Deducted at Source - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=GSTR7_FAQ.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Form GSTR-7
About Form GSTR-7
1. What is Form GSTR-7?

Form GSTR-7 is a return which is required to be filed by the persons who deduct tax at the time of making/crediting payment to suppliers towards the inward supplies received. Tax deductor has a legal obligation:

To declare his TDS liability for a given period (monthly) in Form GSTR-7;
Furnish details of the TDS deducted under three major heads viz., Central tax, State/UT tax and Integrated tax in accordance with that return;
File correct and complete return within stipulated time frame, given the fact that the TDS credit will be available to the counter party taxpayer (supplier) upon filing of TDS return in Form GSTR-7 by the Deductor (i.e., person liable to deduct TDS); and
Issue TDS certificate to the deductee.
2. Who needs to file Form GSTR-7?

As per section 51 of the CGST Act, following persons/entities/establishments are required to deduct TDS.

1.     a department or establishment of the Central Government or State Government;

2.     local authority;

3.     Governmental agencies; and

4.     such persons or category of persons as may be notified by the Government on the recommendations of the Council.

3. By when do I need to file the Form GSTR-7?

The due date for filing Form GSTR-7 is 10th day of the succeeding month.

4. From where can I as Deductor file Form GSTR-7?

Form GSTR-7 can be accessed on the GST Portal, post login in the Returns Dashboard by the taxpayer.

The path is Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard.

5. Is there any Offline Tool for filing Form GSTR-7?

Yes. GSTR 7 return can be filed through offline mode also.

6. Can the date of filing of Form GSTR-7 be extended?

Yes, date of filing of Form GSTR-7 can be extended by Government through notification.

Pre-conditions of Filing Form GSTR-7
7. What are the pre-conditions for filing Form GSTR-7?

Pre-conditions for filing of Form GSTR-7 are:

Tax Deductor should be registered as Tax Deductor and should have a valid/active GSTIN.
Tax Deductor should have valid User ID and password.
Tax Deductor should have active & non-expired/ revoked digital signature (DSC) in case return is filed through DSC.
Tax Deductor has made payment or credited the amount to the supplier’s account.
Nil Form GSTR-7
8. Do I need to file Form GSTR-7 even if no TDS is deducted in the tax period?

It is not mandatory to file nil return, in such case.

 

Form GSTR-7 Dashboard
9. When will the GENERATE SUMMARY and COMPUTE LIABILITY buttons be visible on the GSTR-7 dashboard?
The GENERATE SUMMARY button is available from September 2025 return period onwards.
The COMPUTE LIABILITY button is visible for return periods prior to September 2025.
10. What is the difference between GENERATE SUMMARY and COMPUTE LIABILITY options?

If you click on GENERATE SUMMARY button after saving data in Table 3 and 4, then all tiles in GSTR-7 dashboard will be updated and PROCEED TO FILE button will be enabled. However, if you log out without filing GSTR-7 and tries to file it later then you need to again click on GENERATE SUMMARY button to re-generate the summary on all tiles and to re-enable PROCEED TO FILE button.

 

While in compute liability option, after saving data in Table 3 and 4, all the tiles in GSTR-7 dashboard get automatically updated without clicking on the COMPUTE LIABILITY button.

Table 3 of GSTR-7
11. Can I add new invoices under the same or a different GSTIN?

Yes, you can add new invoices under the same GSTIN or under a different GSTIN altogether.

12. Can I edit or delete invoices in Table 3 after saving them?

Yes, invoices once added and saved in Table 3 can be edited or deleted any number of times before filing GSTR-7.

13. Are negative values allowed in Table 3?

No, negative values are not allowed in Table 3.

14. Is late fee waived for Nil GSTR-7 filings?

Late fee is waived only for Nil Table 3 of GSTR-7.

Table 4 of GSTR-7
15. What are the key rules for amending invoices in Table 4?

Here are the key rules for amending invoices in Table 4:

There is no 2% TDS rate restriction while amending.
However, total tax amount (IGST + CGST + SGST/UTGST) must be less than or equal to value reported in Revised Amount Paid to Deductee, 
Negative values are not permitted in any field.
Invoices accepted by the Deductee in TDS and TCS credit received cannot be amended further.
Original invoices cannot be deleted via Table 4.
Taxpayer cannot delete any original invoice through these tables. They can only delete the amendment to previously filed records saved in these tables before filing GSTR-7.
Amended invoices can be edited multiple times until GSTR-7 is filed.
16. What are the tabs available in Table 4 of GSTR-7?

Table 4 of GSTR-7 consists of two tabs:

Uploaded by Deductor
Rejected by Deductee
17. What is the difference between the "Uploaded by Deductor" tab and the "Rejected by Deductee" tab in Table 4 of GSTR-7?

Uploaded by Deductor: To amend individual invoices on which no action has been taken by deductee in TDS and TCS Credit Received. Multiple amendments of invoice/record is allowed under this tab.

 

Rejected by Deductee: This tab will display list of all invoices rejected by Deductee. Multiple amendments are allowed under this tab.

18. I amended a record in a month. Can I amend the record again under the "Uploaded by Deductor" tab?

Yes, you can amend the same record again under the "Uploaded by Deductor" tab as long as no action has been taken by the deductee in TDS and TCS Credit Received.

 

19. What functionalities are available during amending of Table 4?

All revised and amount fields are amendable in Table 4:

a) Revised GSTIN of Deductee 
b) Revised Amount paid to deductee
c) Revised Invoice/ document no.
d) Revised Invoice/ document date (DD/MM/YYYY)
e) Revised Invoice/document value (₹)
f)  IGST (₹)
g) CGST (₹)
h) SGST/UTGST (₹)

20. What functionalities are disabled during editing of Table 4?

During the Edit mode, the following revised fields are disabled and cannot be modified:

a) Revised GSTIN of Deductee

b) Revised Invoice/Document Number

c) Revised Invoice/Document Date (DD/MM/YYYY)

 

21. Can I report all three tax heads (IGST, CGST, SGST/UTGST) for the same invoice?

Yes, you are allowed to report IGST, CGST, and SGST/UTGST simultaneously for a single invoice in Table 3.
There is no restriction based on the 2% TDS rate while adding the invoice.

 

But total tax amount (IGST + CGST + SGST/ UTGST) should be less than or equal to value reported in ‘Amount paid to the deductee on which tax is deducted’ field (irrespective of invoice value).
 

CGST amount must be equal to SGST amount.

Entering Details in Tables of Form GSTR-7
22. How can I discharge my TDS liability?

TDS liability can be discharged through Electronic Cash Ledger only at the time of filing return.

23. Can the deductee take action on the TDS credit declared by me?

The deductee can accept/ reject the TDS details auto-populated to TDS and TCS Credit received table of his/her return. Taking action by deductee is mandatory for crediting the amount of TDS to cash ledger.

24. When TDS amount will be credited to deductee’s Electronic Cash Ledger?

TDS amount will be credited to deductee’s Electronic Cash Ledger only after his/ her accepting of TDS and TCS credit received (which is auto populated on filing of returns by the deductor) and filing of this relevant form.

25. What will happen if the TDS credit entry is rejected by the deductee?

TDS credit entries rejected by the deductee will be auto-populated into Table 4 of Form GSTR-7 and the relevant details will be required to be amended by the deductor in Form GSTR-7 of next tax period. Post correction of such details in Form GSTR-7, the data will automatically flow to concerned GSTIN (supplier) for accepting or rejecting it. This process will be repeated until TDS details are accepted by counter-party.

26. What will happen if the TDS credit entry is rejected by the deductee?

The TDS credit entries rejected by the deductee will be auto-populated into Table 4 of Form GSTR-7 of next tax period of the deductor and the relevant details will be required to be amended by the deductor. Post correction of such details in Form GSTR-7 by the deductor, the data will automatically flow to TDS/TCS credit form of the deductee, for accepting or rejecting the same. This process will be repeated until TDS details are accepted by the deductee.

 

Note: If details are auto populated in table 4 under ‘rejected by deductee’ tab interest will be levied on differential amount, if TDS amount is increased.  

27. I made no deductions during the tax period, however there is a rejected record in that tax period, do I need to file the return?

No, it is not necessary to file return for a tax period in which you have not made any deductions, even if there are rejected records in that month. The record will be auto-drafted in the subsequent tax period for which you intend to file the return, wherein you would be able to amend the rejected records in Table-4 of Form GSTR-7.

 

For example: Let us assume that the deductor doesn’t have any TDS deductions for the month of April, 2020, but there is a rejected record in that tax period. In such case, it is not necessary to file Form GSTR-7 for April, 2020 by the deductor.

In case the deductor has tax liability for the month of May, 2020, then in that tax period, the deductor can take action on such rejected records and file Form GSTR-7 for May 2020.

Filing & Paying Late Fee
28. Is there any late fee or interest levied on filing of GSTR-7 return beyond the due date?

Yes, late fee and interest are charged on filing of Form GSTR-7 beyond the due date. No late fee will be computed for delayed filing of Nil GSTR-7 from October 2024 return period. However, Form GSTR-7 need not be filed, if you have not deducted tax at source in a particular tax period.

For example: Let us assume that the deductor doesn’t have any TDS deductions for the month of April, 2020, in such case it is not necessary to file Form GSTR-7 for April 2020. 

29. When can a taxpayer file a Nil GSTR-7?

A taxpayer can file Nil GSTR-7 only if no entry exists in Table 3 and 4. In other words, a taxpayer can file Nil GSTR-7 for a tax period/ month in which neither TDS is deducted by the deductor (i.e. no records are there in Table 3) nor any records (including rejected records) are visible in Table 4. 

 

If any rejected records are visible in Table 4 of GSTR-7 then the taxpayer will not be allowed to delete any rejected records and file Nil GSTR-7. Taxpayer will be required to take appropriate action on the rejected records and then proceed with the filing of GSTR-7. 

30. How can I offset my liabilities?

You can offset the liabilities by clicking the table 5&6. Payment of Tax tiles.

If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then additional amount of cash payment will be required. You may create challan for that additional amount of cash required directly by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button at the bottom of page.
If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash is required for offsetting liability.
Previewing & Signing Form GSTR-7
31. What are the modes of signing Form GSTR-7?

You can file Form GSTR-7 using DSC, or EVC.

 

Digital Signature Certificate (DSC)

Digital Signature Certificates (DSC) are the digital equivalent (that is electronic format) of physical or paper certificates. A digital certificate can be presented electronically to prove one’s identity, to access information or services on the Internet or to sign certain documents digitally. In India, DSC are issued by authorized Certifying Authorities. The GST Portal accepts PAN based DSC’s only.

 

Electronic Verification Code (EVC)

The Electronic Verification Code (EVC) authenticates the identity of the user at the GST Portal by generating an OTP. The OTP is sent to the mobile phone number of the registered mobile phone of Authorized Signatory filled in part A of the Registration Application.

32. Can I preview the Form GSTR-7 before filing?

Yes, you can see the preview of Form GSTR-7 by clicking on ‘Preview Draft GSTR 7’ before filing on the GST Portal.

Post Filing of Form GSTR-7 
33. What happens after Form GSTR-7 is filed?

After Form GSTR-7 is filed:

ARN is generated on successful filing of Form GSTR-7 Return.
SMS and email are sent to the applicant/TDS deductor on his/her registered mobile and email id.
The details provided in Table 3 and Table 4 are sent to the deductee, the counter-party for action (Accept/Reject).
The return will become available in the Dashboard of tax officer for view.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[63] Filing Form GSTR-7 - Return for Tax Deducted at Source - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_GSTR7A.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > GSTR-7A
I am a Deductor. How can I view Form GSTR-7A?

To view Form GSTR-7A, perform following steps:

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Click the Services > User Services > View/Download Certificates command.  

 

 

3. The View/Download Certificates page is displayed. Click the TDS Certificate link.  

 

  

4. Select the Financial Year and Return Filing Period from the drop-down list.

5. In the GSTIN of Deductee field, you can also enter the GSTIN of Deductee.

Note: If GSTIN of Deductee is not entered, the downloaded certificate will contain the details of deductees for the selected relevant period.

6. Click the SEARCH button.

 

  

7. The search results are displayed. You can click the Download link to download the TDS Certificate.

 

 

8. The TDS Certificate is displayed in PDF format.

    

I am a Deductee. How can I view Form GSTR-7A?

To view Form GSTR-7A, perform following steps:

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Click the Services > User Services > View/Download Certificates command.  

 

  

3. The View/Download Certificates page is displayed. Click the TDS Certificate link.  

 

   

4. Select the Financial Year and Return Filing Period from the drop-down list.

5. In the GSTIN of Deductor field, you can also enter the GSTIN of Deductor.

Note: If GSTIN of Deductor is not entered, the certificate will be generated having details of all the deductors, who have deducted tax in the selected relevant period.

6. Click the SEARCH button.

 

    

7. The search results are displayed. You can click the Download link to download the TDS Certificate.

 

 

8. The TDS Certificate is displayed in PDF format.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[64] Filing Form GSTR-7 - Return for Tax Deducted at Source - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_GSTR7A.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > GSTR-7A
1. What is Form GSTR-7A?

Form GSTR-7A is a system generated TDS Certificate which is generated once deductor furnishes a return in Form GSTR-7 on the GST Portal and the deductee accepts the details uploaded by deductor and files his return. This TDS Certificate will be available for both Deductor and Deductee.

2. How can I download the TDS certificate?

To download the TDS certificate, access the www.gst.gov.in URL. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Navigate to Services > User Services > View/Download Certificates option.  

3. I have more than one certificate available for download under GSTR-7A certificates. Do I need to download them individually?

Yes, you need to download them individually for each GSTIN.

4. What is TDS Certificate?

A TDS certificate is a certificate generated in Form GSTR-7A on the basis of information furnished in return by Deductor in his Form GSTR-7.

5. How many TDS Certificates are issued per GSTIN?

A single TDS certificate is issued per GSTIN for all the supplies, on which tax has been deducted for every GSTR-7 return filed.

6. Is the signature of Tax Deductor required in TDS Certificate?

Form GSTR-7A is system generated TDS certificate and signature of Tax Deductor is not required.

7. What are the pre-conditions for generation of TDS certificate in Form GSTR-7A?

Precondition for generation of TDS certificate is that deductor furnishes a return in Form GSTR-7 on the GST Portal and the deductee accepts the details uploaded by deductor and files his return.

8. Do I as a taxpayer have to file Form GSTR-7A?

No, you don’t have to file Form GSTR-7A.

9. Can I as a taxpayer (Deductor or Deductee) download and keep a copy of my TDS Certificate for future reference?

Yes, you can view and/or download TDS Certificate in post-login mode on the GST portal.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[65] Filing Form GSTR-8 – Statement for Tax Collection at Source - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_GSTR-8.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Form GSTR-8
How can I create and file details in Form GSTR-8?

To create and file details in Form GSTR-8, perform following steps:

 

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-8 page

B. Enter details in various tiles

C: Payment of Tax

D. File Form GSTR-8 with DSC/ EVC

E. View Debit entries in Electronic Cash Ledger for tax payment

F. Download Filed Return

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-8 page

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard command.

 

 

Alternatively, you can also click the Returns Dashboard link on the login Dashboard.

 

 

2. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Return Filing Period (Month) for which you want to file the return from the drop-down list.

3. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

4. The File Returns page is displayed. In the GSTR-8 tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button if you want to prepare the return by making entries on the GST Portal.

Note: Please read the important message in the box carefully.

 

 

5. The GSTR-8 - Return for Tax Collected at Source dashboard page is displayed.

 

 

 

 

Go back to the main menu

B. Enter details in various tiles

Click on the tile names to know more about entry related details:

 

6 (a) 3. Details of supplies attracting TCS: To add details of supplies attracting TCS.

6 (b) 3.1 Details of supplies made by unregistered suppliers: To add details of supplies made by unregistered suppliers.

6 (c) 4. Amendments to details of supplies attracting TCS: To amend details of supplies attracting TCS in respect of any earlier tax period.

6 (d) 4.1 Amendment to supplies made by unregistered suppliers: To amend details of supplies made by unregistered suppliers.

6 (a) 3. Details of supplies attracting TCS

6.1. Click the 3. Details of supplies attracting TCS tile to add details of supplies attracting TCS.

 

 

6.2. Click the ADD button.

 

 

Note: You can click the Help link to view help related to this page. Click CLOSE.

 

 

 

 

6.3. The TCS Details - Add  page is displayed. This TCS Details- Add page will be displayed until March  2025 tax period.

 

 

From April 2025 tax period onwards, following screen will be displayed where you have to select the Place of Supply (POS) details from POS dropdown.
Note: You cannot enter the same POS for the same GSTIN in a month.

 

 

6.4. In the GSTIN of supplier field, enter the GSTIN of the supplier. Supplier name field is auto populated.

 

6.5 Enter the Gross Value of supplies made and value of supplies returned to registered persons. Similarly, enter the Gross Value of supplies made and value of supplies returned to unregistered persons.

 

Note: Net amount liable for TCS is auto-populated based on data entered.

6.6. Enter the amount collected at source under IGST/ CGST/ SGST heads. Click the SAVE button.

Note:

Declare details of TCS for each supplier here. Please note that GSTIN of the supplier cannot be declared more than once.

Tax is to be collected on the net value of supplies.

Negative values cannot be declared in this table.

At least one tax column must be entered out of three tax columns (IGST or CGST and SGST/UTGST).

Amount of CGST and SGST/UTGST must be same.

 

 

Note 1: From April 2025 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 2: For tax periods prior to July’24, Total Amount of tax collected at source (IGST+CGST+SGST) must be exactly 1% of Net amount liable for TCS (Total amount). If you will try to enter total Amount of tax collected at source (IGST+CGST+SGST) less or greater than 1% of Net amount liable for TCS (Total amount) for supplies reported prior to July 2024 tax periods then following error message will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

Note 3: From July 2024 tax period onwards, Total Amount of tax collected at source (IGST+CGST+SGST) must be between 0.5% to 1% (the amount can vary up to 0.01 decimal places from this range) of Net amount liable for TCS (Total amount). If you will try to enter different value from this range, following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 4: Taxpayer can add more than 1 POS (but not same POS) under the same supplier GSTIN. If taxpayer tries to add more than 1 POS for the same supplier GSTIN, following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 5: Composition taxpayers are allowed to make supplies within his/her registered state only. If he /she tries to select  POS as any other state or he/she tries to enter amount under IGST head following warning message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

6.7. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that TCS details added successfully.

 

 

Note 1: From April 2025 tax period onwards, following screen (with POS name) will be displayed.

 

 

Note 2: Where no data for POS is available, POS column will be displayed as NA .

 

6.8. Refresh the page by clicking the  button. Here, you can also edit/delete the added details (under Actions column).

Note: You can view certain number of records by selecting a number from Records to view per page drop-down list. You can also search any record by providing GSTIN or Trade/Legal name of supplier.

6.9. Click the BACK TO GSTR-8 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-8 Dashboard page.

 

 

Note: From April 2025 tax period onwards, following screen with POS name will be displayed.

 

 

6.10. You will be directed to the GSTR-8 Dashboard landing page and the 3. Details of supplies attracting TCS tile in Form GSTR-8 will reflect the total net amount liable for along with tax details.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Go back to the main menu

 

6 (b) 3.1 Details of supplies made by unregistered suppliers

 

1.    Click the Details of supplies made by unregistered suppliers tile to add the details of supplies made on your platform.

 

 

Note: Initially, the net value of supplies will be zero and will be updated later on. It will be updated after clicking on Compute Liability tab.

 

2.    Click the ADD button.

 

 

3.    Enter the details in Enrolment no. of supplier, Gross value of supplies made, and Values of supplies returned. The Name of supplier and Net value of supplies fields get auto-populated.

 

 

4.  Click the SAVE button to save the details entered.
Note: If the turnover of the enrolment ID has crossed the threshold limit of GST registration, then following warning message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

5.    You will be directed to the previous page and a message will be displayed that supplier details added successfully.

 

6.    Click the refresh button to refresh the page. Click the edit symbol to correct or delete symbol to remove the added details under Actions column.

 

Note: You can view certain number of records by selecting a count from Records to view per page drop-down list. You can also search any record by providing inputs in Search by Enrolment no./ Name of supplier.

 

7.    Click the BACK TO GSTR-8 DASHBOARD button to go to the previous screen.
 

6 (c) 4. Amendments to details of supplies attracting TCS

10.1. Click the 4. Amendments to details of supplies attracting TCS tile to amend details of supplies attracting TCS in respect of any earlier tax period.

 

 

6.2 (a) Uploaded By E-Com Operator tab: To amend transactions uploaded by e-com operator in previous period.

6.2 (b) Rejected By Supplier tab: To edit the transactions rejected by supplier.

 

Note:

In the table 4 (i.e. amendment table) of Form GSTR-8, there is no restriction in the limit on the number of times, details can be amended. You can amend the details in below scenarios:

a. Uploaded by the e-commerce operator: In case, e-commerce operator wants to amend the record on their own (filed in the earlier tax period) on which supplier has not taken any action, they can amend those records under "Uploaded by the e-commerce operator" tab.

b. Rejected by supplier: Under this option, details can be amended on rejection of the record by the supplier. After rejection of details by the supplier, records will be auto-populated in "Rejected by supplier" tab in Table 4 where e-commerce operator can amend and file the details.

TCS liability will be calculated in following manner on amendment of records:

In case details in Form GSTR-8 are amended for first time: TCS liability = Last amended value - Original value.

In case details in Form GSTR-8 are amended for second time: TCS liability = Last amended value - Previous amended value.

 

6.2 (a) Uploaded By E-Com Operator Tab:

 

In Uploaded By E-Com Operator tab, you can amend transactions uploaded by e-com operator in previous period.

 

 

Note: Records can be amended in this tab only when no action is taken by supplier in TDS and TCS Received form.

 

6.3. Select the Financial Year and Month from the drop-down list.

6.4. In the GSTIN of supplier field, enter the GSTIN of the supplier reported in the entry during previous tax period which needs to be amended. Click the AMEND TCS DETAILS button.

 

Note:

Any changes to the details declared in Table-3 (TCS details) in earlier tax period(s) may be declared in Table-4.

No amendment is allowed, once the TCS details are accepted by the supplier.

Records rejected by supplier are available for taking action in the Tab 'Rejected by supplier' in table 4.

Original tax period, financial year and original supplier's GSTIN cannot be edited while amending a record..

ADD POS button will be enabled only if:

a) record to be amended belongs to any tax period on or after April 2025; or

b) any record for selected details are accepted/rejected by supplier or no action has been taken by supplier against such record.

 

 

6.5. On clicking of the AMEND TCS DETAILS button, TCS Details page will be displayed with list of all records which can be amended. Click on edit icon under Action column to edit the details.

 

 

6.5.1. To add a new POS for selected Financial Year, Month and Supplier GSTIN, you can click on ADD POS button. Amend TCS Details -Amend page will be displayed on the screen. 
Select  new POS from the dropdown and enter the amount under Gross value of supplies made, Value of supplies returned for Registered person and Unregistered person. Enter Amount of tax collected at source (IGST,CGST, SGST).  After entering all the values click on the SAVE button.

 

 

Note 1: Taxpayer can not add POS same that is  already reported in Table 3 of GSTR-8 of selected FY, tax period and supplier GSTIN.

 

Note 2: For tax periods prior to July’24, Total Revised Amount of tax collected at source (IGST+CGST+SGST) must be exactly 1% of Revised Net amount liable for TCS (Total amount). If you will try to enter total revised Amount of tax collected at source (IGST+CGST+SGST) less or greater than 1% of Revised Net amount liable for TCS (Total amount) while amending supplies prior to July 2024 tax periods then following error message will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

Note 3: While amending records of June 2024 or prior tax periods, Total Revised Amount of tax collected at source (IGST+CGST+SGST) must be as per the TCS rate which was reported in Table 3 of original tax period. If you will try to enter different value, then error message will be displayed on the screen. From July 2024 tax period onwards, Total Amount of tax collected at source (IGST+CGST+SGST) must be between 0.5% to 1% (the amount can vary up to 0.01 decimal places from this range) of Net amount liable for TCS (Total amount). If you try to enter different value from this range, following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 4: Taxpayer can add more than 1 POS (but not same POS) under the same supplier GSTIN. If taxpayer tries to add more than 1 POS for the same supplier GSTIN, following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

6.5. 2. On clicking of edit icon under Action column on TCS Details page, you will see Amend TCS Details - Amend page. You can provide the Revised GSTIN of Supplier, Revised POS, Revised Gross values of supplies made, Revised Values of supplies returned and revised Amount of tax collected at source for the GSTIN. After making amendments to the details as required. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

Note : Composition taxpayers are allowed to make supplies within his/her registered state only. If he /she tries to select Revised POS as any other state or he/she tries to enter amount under IGST head following warning message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

6.6. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that TCSA details Added successfully. If the record is saved with any error then the Status will be Processed with Error. You can check and correct the record by clicking on edit icon under Action column.

 

 

Note: For older tax period where no data for POS are available POS column will be displayed as NA.

 

 

6.7. You can view certain number of records by selecting a number from Records to view per page drop-down list. You can also search any record by providing GSTIN or Trade/Legal name of supplier.

6.8. Click the BACK TO GSTR-8 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-8 Dashboard page.

 

 

6.9. You will be directed to the GSTR-8 Dashboard page and the 4. Amendments to details of supplies attracting TCS tile in Form GSTR-8 will reflect the difference amount of amended amount and original amount.

 

 

 

 

6.2 (b) Rejected By Supplier Tab:

 

6.1. Select the Rejected By Supplier tab.

 

 

6.2. Click the EDIT button to edit the details.

 

Note : You can view certain number of records by selecting a number from Records to view per page drop-down list. You can also search any record by providing GSTIN or Trade/Legal name of supplier.

6.3 You can view the reasons provided by supplier for rejecting the records under Remarks by Collector column.

 

 

6.4.You can amend the GSTIN of Supplier, POS, Gross values of supplies, Value of supplies returned and all tax amounts. After amending the record, click the SAVE button.

 

 

Note 1: New POS should be different from POS already reported for selected FY, tax period and supplier GSTIN.

Note 2: For tax periods prior to July’24, Total Revised Amount of tax collected at source (IGST+CGST+SGST) must be exactly 1% of Revised Net amount liable for TCS (Total amount). If you try to enter total revised Amount of tax collected at source (IGST+CGST+SGST) less or greater than 1% of Revised Net amount liable for TCS (Total amount) while amending supplies prior to July 2024 tax periods then following error message will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

Note 3: Taxpayer can add more than 1 POS (but not same POS) under the same supplier GSTIN. If taxpayer tries to add more than 1 POS for the same supplier GSTIN, following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 4: To ensure system accepts all entries, follow this method:

 

Original Records (Table 3)	Incorrect Approach (Will trigger a validation error at Step 4) (Table 4)	Correct Approach (All steps will be accepted without validation errors) (Table 4)
S. No. 	Original GSTIN	Original POS	Revised GSTIN	Revised POS	Revised GSTIN	Revised POS
1	GST 1	97	GST 2	97	GST 2	97
2	GST 1	31	GST 3	97	GST 1	31
3	GST 1	96	GST 1	97	GST 1	97
4	GST 1	26	GST 1	31	GST 3	97

 

Final Rule Summary:

a.    Kindly do not change GSTIN and POS together in one step if you plan to reuse the original POS with the said GSTIN.
b.    First change GSTIN, then check whether the combination requires further amendment and make necessary amendments of POS for the said GSTIN if required.
This ensures compliance with POS duplication validations and allows all entries to be saved successfully in Table 4.
 

Note 5: While amending records of June 2024 or prior tax periods, Total Revised Amount of tax collected at source(IGST+CGST+SGST) must be as per the TCS rate which was reported in Table 3 of original tax period. If you try to enter different value, then error message will be displayed on the screen.

Note 6: Reasons provided by supplier for rejection of records will be displayed on the screen of Amend TCS Details-Edit page. 

 

 

 6.5. After amending the details. Click on SAVE button. You will be directed to the previous page and a message will be displayed that TCSA details edited successfully and status of amended records will changes to Modified.

 

 

6.6. Click the BACK button to go back to the Form GSTR-8 Dashboard page.

 

 

6.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-8 Dashboard page and the 4. Amendments to details of supplies attracting TCS tile in Form GSTR-8 will reflect the difference amount of amended amount and original amount.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Go back to the main menu

 

6 (d) 4.1 Amendments to details of supplies made by un-registered suppliers

 

1.    Click the 4.1 Amendments to details of supplies made by un-registered suppliers tile to amend details of supplies made by un-registered suppliers in respect of an earlier tax period.

 

 

2. Select the Financial Year and Month from the drop-down list and enter the GSTIN of supplier. Click the AMEND TCS DETAILS button.

 

 

Note: ADD POS will be displayed on the screen in disabled mode.

 

 

3. On clicking of the AMEND TCS DETAILS button, TCS Details page will be displayed on the screen. ADD POS  button will be disabled mode if there are no records at all (accepted/rejected/no action taken) for the parameters selected. Click on edit icon under Action column to edit the details.

 

 

Note: Taxpayer will not be able to amend already accepted records in Table 4. 

 

3.1.1. If taxpayer clicks on ADD POS button, Amend TCS Details -Amend page will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

 

 

3.    Enter the Revised enrolment no. of supplier. The details in Revised gross values of supplies made, Revised values of supplies returned and Revised net amount collected will be auto-populated. Click the SAVE button.

 

4.    Updated details will be added successfully.

 

5.    Click the pencil symbol to edit and delete symbol to delete the added details under Actions column.
Note: You can view certain number of records by selecting a number from Records to view per page drop-down list. You can also search any record by providing Enrollment no or Name of supplier.

 

6.    Click the BACK TO GSTR-8 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-8 dashboard page.

 

Note 1: Amendments in the Form GSTR-8 will be allowed until the October tax period of the next financial year, provided that the return is filed on or before the 30th  of November of that year. After October, no more amendments will be allowed.

 

Note 2: In case, wherein the taxpayer has already saved the amendment records (for the previous FY in current FY) and filing the statement post 30th  November, then such records will not be allowed to be filed and will be errored out in the manner as specified. Such records will be displayed under the table Error records required to be corrected.
 

 

C. Payment of Tax

7. Click the COMPUTE LIABILITY button for computation of tax liability and interest if any.

 

 

8. A message is displayed on top page of the screen that Compute Liability request has been received. Please check the status after sometime. Click the Refresh button.

 

 

9. Once the status of Form GSTR-8 is Ready to File, 5. Details of Interest and 6 & 7. Payment of Tax tile and PROCEED TO FILE button gets enabled.

 

 

10. Click the 5.Details of Interest tile to view the default amount of TCS liability and applicable interest on such default liability.

 

 

11. The Details of Interest page is displayed. Click the BACK TO GSTR-8 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-8 Dashboard page.

 

 

Note:

Amount in default is the cumulative amount on which interest has been charged.

Interest is payable when there is delay in filing of statement, beyond the due date or there is any upward amendments in the values of earlier provided details, on which tax is liable to be paid along with interest.

 

12. Click the 6 & 7. Payment of Tax tile or PROCEED TO FILE button.

 

 

 

 

13. The Payment of Tax page is displayed.

Note:

Liabilities can be paid in cash only.

'Create challan' button will be enabled for selection only if sufficient cash is not available in Electronic Cash Ledger.

Declaration and Authorized signatory fields will be enabled only if sufficient cash balance is available to offset the liabilities.

 

14.1. The cash available as on date under various heads are shown in table at the top of the page.

 

 

14.2 (a). Scenario 1: If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. You can view the "Additional Cash required" column to know if there is any additional cash required for offsetting the liability.

ii. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then additional amount of cash will be required. You may create challan for that additional cash directly by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button at the bottom of page.

iii. The Create Challan page is displayed.

 

Note: In the Tax Liability Details grid, the Total Challan Amount field and Total Challan Amount (In Words) fields are auto-populated with total amount of payment to be made. You cannot edit the amount in these fields. You will be taken to Payment Application page.

 

iv. Select the Payment Modes as E-Payment/ Over the Counter/ NEFT/RTGS.

v. Click the GENERATE CHALLAN button.

vi. The Challan is generated.

 

Note: 

(a) In case of Net Banking: You will be directed to the Net Banking page of the selected Bank. The payment amount is shown at the Bank’s website. If you want to change the amount, abort the transaction and create a new challan.

In case of successful payment, you will be re-directed to the GST Portal where the transaction status will be displayed.

 

(b) In case of Over the Counter:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Pay using Cash/ Cheque/ Demand Draft within the Challan’s validity period. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

(c) In case of NEFT/ RTGS:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Mandate form will be generated simultaneously. Pay using Cheque through your account with the selected Bank/ Branch. You can also pay using the account debit facility. The transaction will be processed by the Bank and RBI shall confirm the same within <2 hours>. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

Click here to refer the FAQs and User Manual on Making Payment.

 

14.3 (b). Scenario 2: If available cash balance in Electronic cash ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash is required for paying liability.

15. You can view the "Additional Cash required" column to know if there is any additional cash required for paying liability.

 

Note: You can click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-8 DETAILS (EXCEL) button to view the summary page in excel format or click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-8 button to view the summary page of Form GSTR-8 in pdf format for your review.

 

Go back to the main menu

D. File Form GSTR-8 with DSC/ EVC

16. Select the Declaration checkbox. Select the Authorized Signatory from the drop-down list. Click the FILE GSTR-8 button.

 

 

 

17. Read the message carefully and click the YES button.

 

 

18. The Submit Application page is displayed. Click the FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button.

 

 

19.1. FILE WITH DSC:

a. Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

19.2. FILE WITH EVC:

a. Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VALIDATE OTP button.

 

 

20. The success message is displayed and ARN is displayed. Status of the Form GSTR-8 return changes to "Filed". Click the BACK button.

21. After Form GSTR-8 is filed:

ARN is generated on successful filing of the Form GSTR-8 Return.

An SMS and an email are sent to the applicant on his registered mobile and email id.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

E. View Debit entries in Electronic Cash Ledger for tax payment

22. Click the Debit entries in electronic cash ledger for TCS/interest payment tile to view the reference ID through which the amount has been debited in electronic cash ledger.

 

 

23. The entries in Electronic Cash Ledger for tax payment is displayed. Click the BACK TO GSTR-8 DASHBOARD button.

 

 

 

Go back to the main menu

F. Download Filed Return

24. Click the DOWNLOAD FILED GSTR-8 button to download the filed return.

25. You can also download filed details as an excel file by clicking on DOWNLOAD GSTR-8 DETAILS (EXCEL) button.

 

 

26. The PDF file generated would now bear watermark of final Form GSTR-8.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[66] Filing Form GSTR-8 – Statement for Tax Collection at Source - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_GSTR-8.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Form GSTR-8
About Form GSTR-8
1. What is Form GSTR-8?

Form GSTR-8 is a Statement of TCS (Tax Collected at Source) to be filed by E Commerce Operators. Form GSTR-8 contains the details of taxable supplies and the amount of consideration collected by such operator pertaining to the supplies made by other suppliers through such e commerce operator and amount of TCS collected on such supplies.

2. Who needs to file Form GSTR-8?

Form GSTR-8 is to be filed by every E-commerce Operator who are registered under GST laws and required to collect TCS on outward supplies of goods and/ or services effected through the e-commerce Portal / platform (maintained by the e-commerce operator) made by taxable persons registered with it.

3. Is it mandatory to file Form GSTR-8?

Filing of Form GSTR-8 for every tax period is not mandatory. E-commerce operator is  required to file Form GSTR-8 for a particular tax period, when goods are supplied through such operator and they have collected any TCS amount during the said tax period or they have to amend any details declared in earlier return on their own or on account of any details rejected by supplier which is auto-populated in Table 4 of the said return in that tax period.

Pre-conditions of Filing Form GSTR-8
4. What are the pre-conditions for filing Form GSTR-8?

Pre-conditions for filing of Form GSTR-8 are:

E-commerce Operator should be a registered person and should have an active GSTIN during the tax period for which return is intended to be filed.
E-commerce Operator should have valid User ID and password.
E-commerce Operator should also have valid & non-expired/non-revoked digital signature (DSC) where DSC is applicable or a mobile number registered on portal to file return through EVC verification.
E-commerce Operator has collected TCS amount.
Nil Form GSTR-8
5. By when do I need to file the Form GSTR-8 and is there any late fee for late filing?

The due date for filing Form GSTR-8 for a particular tax period is 10th day of the succeeding month or as amended by Government by notification from time to time.

Late fee is applicable from Oct. 2022 return period. Hence, if a taxpayer is filing Form GSTR-8 for the return period falling before October 22, no late fee will be charged. If the return period pertains to October 2022 and onwards, late fee will be applicable and required to be paid if the Form GSTR-8 gets filed beyond the due date. However, interest will be charged in case of delay in discharging of TCS liability beyond the due date. 

Filing Nil Form GSTR-8
6. From where can I as a taxpayer file Form GSTR-8?

Form GSTR-8 can be accessed on the GST Portal, post login in the Returns Dashboard by the taxpayer.

The path is Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard.

7. Is there any Offline Tool for filing Form GSTR-8?

Yes. Form GSTR-8 return can be filed through offline mode.

8. Can the date of filing of Form GSTR-8 be extended?

Yes, date of filing of Form GSTR-8 can be extended by Government through notification.

9. Do I need to file Form GSTR-8 even if no TCS liability is there in the tax period?

If E-commerce operator do not have any TCS liability in any particular tax period and also there is no transaction that has been auto-populated in table 4 of GSTR-8 of that particular tax period due to rejection of TCS details by the supplier in TDS/TCS credit received table, filing of Form GSTR-8 will not be mandatory for the said tax period. Otherwise, it is mandatory to file Form GSTR-8 for a particular tax period in which TCS has been collected or details are auto populated in table 4.

Entering Details in Tables of Form GSTR-8
10. Form GSTR-8 comprises of which tables?

Form GSTR-8 comprises of following tables:

1. Table 3: Details of Supplies attracting TCS (Can be filled using the Offline Utility or online on the GST Portal)

2. Table 4: Amendment to details of supplies attracting TCS in respect of earlier statement (Can be filled using the Offline Utility or online on the GST Portal)

3. Table 5: Details of Interest on account of late payment of TCS amount (Auto calculated on GST Portal)

4. Table 6&7: Payment of Tax (Can be done only online on the GST Portal)

11. I am not able to amend TCS details in Table 4 of Form GSTR-8. Why?

Amendment of TCS details in Table 4 of Form GSTR-8 cannot be made when the TCS details have already been accepted by counter party, or the TCS details has already been amended once.

12. When can I amend TCS details in Table 4 of Form GSTR-8?

Amendment of TCS details in Table 4 is allowed only once in case original TCS details has not been accepted by the supplier in TDS/TCS credit table or the same has been rejected by the supplier. After amendment, it will go back to the supplier.

Once the TCS details have been accepted by the supplier, then no amendment of the same is allowed at E-commerce Operator’s end.

13. Do I need to file Form GSTR-8 for the tax period, in which there are only rejected documents in table 4?

No, it is not necessary to file Form GSTR-8 for the tax period in which there are only rejected documents in table 4 and there is no TCS liability.

The E-commerce operator can file the statement for the tax period in which there is TCS liability and can amend the rejected documents of earlier statements in the said tax period itself.

For Example: Let us assume that E-commerce operator doesn’t have any TCS liability for the month of April 2020, but there is a record rejected by the supplier. In such scenario, it is not necessary for that E-commerce operator to file Form GSTR-8 for April 2020.

In case E-commerce operator has TCS liability for the month of May 2020, then in that tax period he can take action on such rejected documents, in the month of May, 2020 and file Form GSTR-8 for May 2020.

14. Is there any limit on the number of times, details can be amended in Form GSTR-8?

In the table 4 (i.e. amendment table) of Form GSTR-8, there is no restriction in the limit on the number of times, details can be amended. You can amend the details in below scenarios:

a. Uploaded by the e-commerce operator: In case, e-commerce operator wants to amend the record on their own (filed in the earlier tax period), on which supplier has not taken any action, they can amend those records under "Uploaded by the e-commerce operator" tab.

b. Rejected by supplier: Under this option, details can be amended on rejection of the record by the supplier. After rejection of details by the supplier, records will be auto-populated in "Rejected by supplier" tab in Table 4 where e-commerce operator can amend and file the details.

TCS liability will be calculated in following manner on amendment of records:

 In case details in Form GSTR-8 are amended for first time: TCS liability = Last amended value - Original value.
 In case details in Form GSTR-8 are amended for second time: TCS liability = Last amended value - Previous amended value.
15. Can I enter the GSTIN of composition taxpayers in Table 4 of Form GSTR-8?

Yes, you can enter the GSTIN of Composition taxpayers in Table 4 of Form GSTR-8, if the same was reported in table 3 in any earlier tax period.

 

17. Can I enter the GSTIN of composition taxpayers in Table 3 of Form GSTR-8?

Yes, you can enter the GSTIN of Composition taxpayers in Table 3 of Form GSTR-8. Make sure that only intra-state supplies are reported in this case. If any tax amount is reported under IGST head then below warning message will be displayed:
“Warning! Composition taxpayers are only allowed to make intra-State supplies.”

18. Can I enter the GSTIN of composition taxpayers in Table 4 of Form GSTR-8?

Yes, you can enter the GSTIN of Composition taxpayers in Table 4 of Form GSTR-8. Make sure that only intra-state supplies are reported in this case. If any tax amount is reported under IGST head then below warning message will be displayed:
“Warning! Composition taxpayers are only allowed to make intra-State supplies.”

 

19. Where can I add Place of Supply (POS)?

From April 2025 tax period onwards, while adding records in Table-3 and Table-4 of GSTR-8, you have to select the Place of Supply (POS) details from POS dropdown.
Note: Please note that you cannot select same POS for same GSTIN in a month.

20. What are  the rate validations that a taxpayer must follow while filling the data in Table-3 - Details of supplies attracting TCS and Table-4 - Amendment to details of supplies attracting TCS?

For tax periods prior to July’24, Total Amount of tax collected at source(IGST+CGST+SGST) must be exactly 1% of Net amount liable for TCS (Total amount).
From July 2024 tax period onwards, Total Amount of tax collected at source(IGST+CGST+SGST) must be between 0.5% to 1% (the amount can vary up to 0.01 decimal places from this range) of Net amount liable for TCS (Total amount).
If taxpayer will try to enter different value from the above, error messages will be displayed on the screen.

Filing & Paying Late Fee
21. How can I discharge my TCS liability?

TCS liability can be discharged through Electronic Cash Ledger only.

22. How can I offset my liabilities?

You can offset the liabilities by clicking the 6, 7. Payment of Tax tile.

If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then additional amount of cash payment will be required. You may create challan for that additional amount of cash required directly by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button at the bottom of page.
If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash payment is required for offsetting liability.
Previewing & Signing Form GSTR-8
23. Can I preview Form GSTR-8 before filing?

Yes, you can view/download the preview of Form GSTR-8 by clicking on ‘PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR 8’ before filing on the GST Portal.

24. What are the modes of signing Form GSTR-8?

You can file Form GSTR-8 using DSC or EVC.

 

(a) Digital Signature Certificate (DSC)

Digital Signature Certificates (DSC) are the digital equivalent (that is electronic format) of physical or paper certificates. A digital certificate can be presented electronically to prove one’s identity, to access information or services on the Internet or to sign certain documents digitally. In India, DSC are issued by authorized Certifying Authorities. The GST Portal accepts PAN based DSC’s only.

 

(b) Electronic Verification Code (EVC)

The Electronic Verification Code (EVC) authenticates the identity of the user at the GST Portal by generating an OTP. The OTP is sent to the mobile phone number of the registered mobile phone of Authorized Signatory filled in part A of the Registration Application.

Post Filing of Form GSTR-8  
25. What happens after Form GSTR-8 is filed?

After Form GSTR-8 is filed:

ARN is generated on successful filing of the Form GSTR-8 Return.
An SMS and an email are sent to the applicant on his registered mobile and email id.
The details provided in Table 3 and Table 4 are sent to counter-party for action (Accept/Reject).
The return will be available in the Dashboard of tax officer

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[67] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/returns/gstr9

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[68] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_gstr9.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > GSTR-9
How can I prepare and file Form GSTR-9 return?

Form is an annual return to be filed once, for each financial year, by the registered taxpayers who were regular taxpayers, including SEZ units and SEZ developers. The taxpayers are required to furnish details of purchases, sales, input tax credit or refund claimed or demand created etc. in this return.

 

To prepare and file Form GSTR-9 return, perform the following steps:

 

(I) In case, you want to file NIL return in Form GSTR-9, click here.

 

(II) In case, you want to file annual return in Form GSTR-9, perform following steps:

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer

B. Download Form GSTR-1, Form GSTR-3B, Form GSTR-9 Summary and Table 8A Document Details

C. Enter details in various tiles

D. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9 Summary

E. Compute Liabilities and Pay Late Fees, If any

F. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9

G. File Form GSTR-9 with DSC/ EVC

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3.1 Click the Services > Returns > Annual Return command.

 

 

3.2. Alternatively, you can also click the Annual Return link on the Dashboard.

 

 

4. The File Annual Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year for which you want to file the annual return from the drop-down list.

5. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

6. The File Returns page is displayed.

7. Please read the important message in the boxes carefully.

8. This page displays the due date of filing annual return, by giving relevant information in separate tiles by the taxpayer. In the GSTR-9 tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button.

 

 

From financial year 2024-25 onwards, the following screen will be displayed.

 

 

9. A question is displayed. You need to answer this question whether you want to file nil annual return for that particular financial year or not, to proceed further to the next screen.

Note:

Nil annual return can be filed by you for a particular financial year, if you have:

NOT made any outward supply (commonly known as sale); AND

NOT received any goods/services (commonly known as purchase); AND

NO other liability to report; AND

NOT claimed any credit; AND

NOT claimed any refund; AND

NOT received any order creating demand

There is no late fee to be paid etc.

 

 

9.1. In case of Yes (File Nil Return):

9.1.1 Select Yes for option 1 to file nil return.

9.1.2. Click the NEXT button, click on compute liabilities and proceed to file.

9.1.3. File Form GSTR-9 with DSC/ EVC

(Click on hyperlinks indicated to know more)

 

9.2. In case of No:

Note: The option for No is pre-filled in case the data from Form GSTR-1 and Form GSTR-3B returns is auto-populated in Form GSTR 9 being filed by you.

10. Select No for option 1 to file GSTR-9 return.

11. Click the NEXT button.

 

 

12. The GSTR-9 Annual Return for Normal Taxpayers page is displayed.

Note: Please read the important message in the boxes "Steps to prepare GSTR-9 return online" carefully.

 

 

Note 1: Starting from financial year 2024-25, the following screen will be displayed.

 

NOTE: If the taxpayer clicks COMPUTE LIABILITIES without filling up table 17- HSN wise summary of Outward Supplies, a highlighted error message will appear.

 

 

 

Go back to the main menu

B. Download Form GSTR-1, Form GSTR-3B, Form GSTR-9 Summary and Table 8A Document Details

 

GST Portal will compute values in different tables of Form GSTR-9 based on Form GSTR-1 and Form GSTR-3B filed by the taxpayer and details auto-populated in Form GSTR-2A. This system computed GSTR-9 and Table 8A excel are available for download in PDF/ Excel format. 

 

Note: From FY 2023-24 onwards, the GST Portal will compute values in different tables of Form GSTR-9 based on Form GSTR-1 and Form GSTR-3B filed by taxpayer and details auto-populated in Form GSTR-2B. This system computed GSTR-9 and Table 8A excel are available for download in PDF/ Excel format.

 

Click on the links below to know more:

 

13.1. DOWNLOAD Form GSTR-9 SYSTEM COMPUTED SUMMARY (PDF)

13.2. DOWNLOAD Form GSTR-1/iFF SUMMARY (PDF)

13.3. DOWNLOAD Form GSTR-3B SUMMARY (PDF)

13.4  DOWNLOAD TABLE 8A DOCUMENT DETAILS (EXCEL)

 

Note: GST Portal will calculate GSTR-9 values in different tables, based on Form GSTR-1 and Form GSTR-3B filed by you. This is available as download in PDF format and will be auto populated in different tables of Form GSTR 9 in editable form, except in table no. 6A, 8A and table no. 9 (Paid through Cash and Paid through ITC).

13.1. DOWNLOAD Form GSTR-9 SYSTEM COMPUTED SUMMARY (PDF)

13.1.1. You can click DOWNLOAD GSTR-9 SYSTEM COMPUTED SUMMARY (PDF) to download system computed GSTR-9 in PDF format.

Note: GST Portal will calculate GSTR-9 values in different tables, based on Form GSTR-1 and Form GSTR-3B filed by you. This is available as download in PDF format and will be auto populated in different tables of Form GSTR 9 as well, in editable form except in table no 6A, 8A and table no 9 (Paid through Cash and Paid through ITC).

 

 

13.1.2. The system computed Form GSTR-9 in PDF format is displayed.

Note: From FY 2023-24 onwards following PDF will be downloaded in the system.

 

 

Note: Starting from financial year 2024-25, the following PDF will be displayed.

 

 

 

Go back to the main menu

13.2. DOWNLOAD Form GSTR-1/1A/IFF SUMMARY (PDF)

13.2.1. You can click DOWNLOAD GSTR-1/1A/FF SUMMARY (PDF) to download Form GSTR-1 summary for all tax periods of the relevant financial year in PDF format.

 

 

13.2.2. The Form GSTR-1 summary for the tax periods up to 2023-24 in PDF format is displayed.

Note:  For the FY 2021-22 and future tax periods upto 2023-24, if the taxpayer has filed all monthly/quarterly statements in  form GSTR-1/1A/IFF, the summary page will be displayed as below.

 

 

Starting from financial year 2024-25:

Note 1: The taxpayer can download GSTR-1/1A/IFF SUMMARY (PDF). 

 

Note 2: Upon clicking the DOWNLOAD GSTR-1/1A/IFF (PDF) button, the following consolidated summary PDF of Form GSTR-1 and GSTR-1A will be downloaded.    

 

Go back to the main menu

13.3 DOWNLOAD Form GSTR-3B SUMMARY (PDF)

13.3.1. You can click DOWNLOAD GSTR-3B SUMMARY (PDF) to download GSTR-3B summary for all tax periods of the relevant financial year in PDF format.

 

 

13.3.2. The Form GSTR-3B summary for all tax periods in PDF format is displayed.

 

 

From financial year 2024-25, the following PDF will be displayed.

 

 

 

Go back to the main menu

13.4 DOWNLOAD TABLE 8A DOCUMENT DETAILS (EXCEL)

13.4.1. You can click DOWNLOAD TABLE 8A DOCUMENT DETAILS to download the document wise details of Form GSTR-2A in Excel format.

Note 1:

Document-wise details of Form GSTR-2A have been considered for determining the values in Table 8A of Form GSTR-9.

Table 8A of Form GSTR-9 is populated based on documents filed in Form GSTR-1 or Form GSTR-5 by the supplier. Therefore, not all documents appearing in GSTR-2A (Tables 3 & 5) will be reflected here, as documents that are only in ‘uploaded’ or ‘submitted’ status in Form GSTR-1 or 5 are not accounted for credit in Table 8A of Form GSTR-9.

While data saved/submitted in Form GSTR-1/5 will appear in Form GSTR-2A, it will not be shown in the downloaded Excel file for Table 8A of Form GSTR-9.

 

 

From FY 2023-24 onwards, document-wise details from Form GSTR-2B will be considered for determining the values in Table 8A of Form GSTR-9.

Table 8A of Form GSTR-9 is populated based on documents filed in Form GSTR-1/IFF or Form GSTR-5 by the supplier. Therefore, not all documents appearing in GSTR-2B [Table 3(I)] will be reflected here, as documents that are only in ‘uploaded’ or ‘submitted’ status in Form GSTR-1/IFF or GSTR-5 are not accounted for credit in Table 8A of Form GSTR-9.

 

13.4.2. Click the hyperlinks to download the files.

 

 

Note: In some cases zip file will be downloaded directly into the system of the taxpayer, if it contains less data. No hyperlinks will be available in such cases on the Dashboard, as explained earlier.

 

 

13.4.3. The document wise details for Table 8A is downloaded in zip format.

 

Unzip the file and document wise details for Table 8A in Excel format is displayed in Excel format.

Note 1: The details of Table B2B, B2BA, CDNR, CDNRA, ECO and ECOA will be available in the downloaded excel. This will help the taxpayer in reconciling the values of Table 8A and will facilitate in filling Form GSTR-9.  

 

 

Note 2: From FY 2023-24 onwards following excel file will be downloaded in the system.

 

 

Note 3: Starting from financial year 2024-25, the following details will be displayed in the GSTR-8A Excel format.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

 

 

13.5 DOWNLOAD TABLE 12 of GSTR-1/GSTR-1A HSN DETAILS

13.5.1 Starting from financial year 2024-25, the taxpayer can also download table 12 of GSTR-1/GSTR-1A HSN Details. Click on the DOWNLOAD TABLE 12 of GSTR-1/GSTR-1A HSN DETAILS button.

 

 

13.5.2. Click on the hyperlink to download the file.

 

 

13.5.3. The file is downloaded in zip format. Unzip the file and table 12 of GSTR-1/GSTR-1A HSN details is displayed in the Excel format.

This report will contain:

Month-wise HSN details as reported in Table 12 of GSTR-1 and GSTR-1A, and
A consolidated report formatted as per the requirements of GSTR-9 Table-17.

 

 

C. Enter details in various tiles

Click on the tile names to know more about and enter related details:

 

14.1. 4.Details of advances, inward and outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is payable: To enter/ view the summary of outward/ inward supplies made during the financial year

14.2. 5.Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is not payable: To enter/ view the summary of non-taxable outward supplies made during the financial year

14.3. 6.Details of ITC availed during the financial year: To enter/ view the summary of ITC availed during the financial year

14.4. 7.Details of ITC reversed and Ineligible ITC for the financial year: To enter/ view the summary of ITC reversed or ineligible for the financial year

14.5. 8. Other ITC related information: To enter/ view the ITC availed during the financial year

14.6. 9.Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year: To enter/ view the tax (including Interest, Late Fee, Penalty & Others) paid during the financial year

14.7. 10,11,12&13 Details of the previous Financial Year's transactions reported in next Financial Year: Details of the transactions for the financial year declared in returns of the next financial year till the specified period.

14.8. 14. Differential tax paid on account of declaration in table no. 10 & 11: To enter/ view the total tax paid on transactions reported in next financial year

14.9. 15. Particulars of Demands and Refunds: To enter/ view particulars of demands and refunds during the financial year

14.10. 16. Supplies received from Composition taxpayers, deemed supply by job worker and goods sent on approval basis: To enter/ view the summary of supplies received from Composition taxpayers, deemed supply by job worker and goods sent on approval basis

14.11. 17. HSN wise summary of Outward Supplies: To enter/ view HSN wise summary of outward supplies made during the financial year

14.12. 18. HSN wise summary of Inward Supplies: To enter/ view HSN wise summary of inward supplies received during the financial year

14.1. 4. Details of advances, inward and outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is payable

14.1.1. Click the 4. Details of advances, inward and outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is payable tile to enter/ view the summary of outward/ inward supplies made during the financial year.

Note: Details will be auto filled based on details uploaded by you in Form GSTR-1 and Form GSTR-3B during the said relevant financial year.

 

 

14.1.2. The 4. Details of advances, inward and outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is payable page is displayed.

 

 

Note:  From FY 2023-24 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen where table 4 G1 will be visible for capturing supplies reported by e-commerce operator.

 

14.1.3. Enter/edit the Taxable Value, Integrated Tax, Central Tax, State/UT Tax and Cess details.

Note: You can click the Help link to know more details.

14.1.4. Click the SAVE button.

Note 1: If the details provided are +/- 20% from the auto-populated values, then cells would be highlighted in red for your reference and attention.

 

 

Note 2: From FY 2023-24 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen where table 4G1 will be visible for capturing supplies reported by e-commerce operator. You can click the Help link to know more details.

 

 

14.1.5. Click the YES button.

 

 

14.1.6. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button

 

 

Note: Starting from financial year 2024-25, the following note will be displayed. It mentions that if a taxpayer enters any value that differs from the system-computed value, it will be highlighted in red as as a warning. This highlight will persist even after the return is filed.

 

 

In this case, the following warning message will be displayed on clicking the SAVE button.

 

A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button

 

 

14.1.7. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9 Dashboard page.

 

 

14.1.8. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled up in Table Number 4N.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

14.2. 5. Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is not payable

14.2.1. Click the 5. Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is not payable tile to enter/ view the summary of non-taxable outward supplies made during the financial year.

Note: Details will be auto filled based on details uploaded by you in Form GSTR-1 and Form GSTR-3B during the said relevant financial year.

 

 

14.2.2. The 5. Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is not payable page is displayed.

 

Note: From FY 2023-24 onwards, following screen will be displayed on the screen where Table 5 C1 will be visible for capturing supplies reported by e-commerce operator.

 

14.2.3. Enter the Taxable Value details.

14.2.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

Note 1: If the details provided are +/- 20% from the auto-populated values, then cells would be highlighted in red for your reference and attention.

 

 

14.2.5. Click the YES button.

 

 

14.2.6. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button

 

 

Note: Starting from financial year 2024-25, the following note will be displayed. It mentions that if a taxpayer enters any value that differs from the system-computed value, respective cell will be highlighted in red as a warning. This highlight will persist even after the return is filed.

 

 

In this case, the following warning message will be displayed on clicking the SAVE button. 

 

 

A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button.

 

 

14.2.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled in Table Number 5(M).

 

 

Go back to the main menu

14.3. 6. Details of ITC availed during the financial year

14.3.1. Click the 6. Details of ITC availed during the financial year tile to enter/ view the summary of ITC availed during the financial year.

Note: Details will be auto filled based on the details provided by you in Form GSTR-3B for the relevant financial year.

 

 

14.3.2. The 6. Details of ITC availed during the financial year page is displayed.

Note: Table number 6A will be auto filled based on the Form GSTR-3B and the same is non editable.

 

 

14.3.3. Enter the Integrated Tax, Central Tax, State/UT Tax and Cess.

14.3.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

14.3.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button.

 

 

Note 1: Starting from financial year 2024-25, two new fields (A1) and (A2) have been added in Table 6. Additionally, the labels for fields (H), (J) and (M) have been revised. The equality check between CGST and SGST in the field (M) has also been removed.       

 

Note 2: Starting from financial year 2024-25, the following note will be displayed. It mentions that if a taxpayer enters any value that differs from the system-computed value, it will be highlighted in red as a warning. This highlight will persist even after the return is filed.

 

 

In this case, the following warning message will be displayed on clicking the SAVE button.

 

 

A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button.

 

 

14.3.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9 Dashboard page.

 

14.3.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled in Table Number 6(O).

 

 

Go back to the main menu

14.4. 7. Details of ITC reversed and Ineligible ITC for the financial year

14.4.1. Click the 7. Details of ITC reversed and Ineligible ITC for the financial year tile to enter/ view the summary of ITC reversed or ineligible during the financial year.

 

 

14.4.2. The 7. Details of ITC reversed and Ineligible ITC for the financial year page is displayed.

 

 

14.4.3. Enter the Integrated Tax, Central Tax, State/UT Tax and Cess.

14.4.4. In case you want to add other reversals, enter the description for reversal and tax details.

14.4.5. Click the Add button to add more rows, if required.

14.4.6. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

Note: From financial year 2024-25 return period onwards, two new fields (A1 and A2) have been added in Table 7.

 

14.4.7. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button.

 

 

14.4.8. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9 Dashboard page.

 

14.4.9. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled in Table Number 7(I).

 

 

Go back to the main menu

14.5. 8. Other ITC related information

14.5.1. Click the 8. Other ITC related information tile to enter/ view the ITC availed during the financial year.

Note 1: Table number 8A will be auto filled based on the details auto populated in Form GSTR-2A and the same is non editable.

 

Note 2: Table 8A will be auto-filled based on the details auto-populated in Form GSTR-2A and the same is non-editable. From FY 2023-24, Table number 8A will be auto-filled based on the details auto-populated in Form GSTR-2B and the same is non-editable.

 

 

14.5.2. The 8. Other ITC related information page is displayed.

Note: From FY 2023-24 onwards, Table number 8A will be auto-populated based on the Form GSTR-2B and the same is non-editable. 

 

 

14.5.3. Enter the Integrated Tax, Central Tax, State/UT Tax and Cess details in row C, E, F & G of the table.

14.5.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

Note: From FY 2023-24 onwards, following screen will display.

 

 

Note: From financial year 2024-25 return period onwards, a new field H1 has been introduced in Table 8, along with label updates for fields (B), (H), and (I).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

 

14.5.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button.

 

 

14.5.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9 Dashboard page.

 

14.5.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled in Table Number 8(A).

 

Go back to the main menu

14.6. 9. Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year

14.6.1. Click the 9. Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year tile to enter/ view the tax (including Interest, Late Fee, Penalty & Others) paid during the financial year.

 

 

14.6.2. The 9. Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year page is displayed.

Note: Complete Table number 9 will be auto filled based on the details provided by you in Form GSTR-3B for the relevant financial year. Paid through Cash and Paid through Cash columns are non-editable.

 

 

14.6.3. Enter the Tax Payable for Integrated Tax, Central Tax, State/UT Tax, Cess, Interest, Late Fees, Penalty and others.

14.6.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

Note 1: Starting from financial year 2024-25, the following screen will be displayed, reflecting revised notes and two new columns, Total Tax Paid (₹) and Difference between Tax Payable and Paid (₹).

 

 

Note 2: Starting from financial year 2024-25, the following note will be displayed. It mentions that if a taxpayer enters any value that differs from the system-computed value, respective cell will be highlighted in red as a warning. This highlight will persist even after the return is filed. 

 

 

In this case, the following warning message will be displayed on clicking the SAVE button.

 

 

14.6.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button.

 

 

14.6.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9 Dashboard page.

 

 

14.6.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled in Table Number 9.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

14.7. 10,11,12&13  Particulars of the transactions for the financial year declared in returns of the next financial year till the specified period

14.7.1. Click the 10,11,12 &13  Particulars of the transactions for the financial year declared in returns of the next financial year till the specified period tile to enter/ view the summary of transactions reported in next financial year.

 

 

14.7.2. The 10,11,12&13 Particulars of the transactions for the financial year declared in returns of the next financial year till specified period page is displayed.

 

 

14.7.3. Enter the Taxable Value, Integrated Tax, Central Tax, State/UT Tax and Cess in the relevant rows of the table.

14.7.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

Note: Starting from financial year 2024-25, the following screen will be displayed with some label changes in fields 10, 11, 12 & 13.

 

14.7.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button.

 

 

14.7.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9 Dashboard page.

 

14.7.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled in the respective tile.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

14.8. 14. Differential tax paid on account of declaration in table no. 10 & 11

14.8.1. Click the 14. Differential tax paid on account of declaration in table no. 10 & 11 tile to enter/ view the total tax paid on transactions reported in next financial year.

 

 

14.8.2. The 14. Differential tax paid on account of declaration in table no. 10 & 11 page is displayed.

 

 

14.8.3. Enter the Payable and paid amount details.

14.8.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

Note: Starting from financial year 2024-25, a new column of Difference (₹) has been introduced in Table 14.

 

 

14.8.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button.

 

 

14.8.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9 Dashboard page.

 

 

14.8.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled in the respective tile.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

14.9. 15. Particulars of Demands and Refunds

14.9.1. Click the 15. Particulars of Demands and Refunds tile to enter/ view particulars of demands and refunds during the financial year.

 

 

14.9.2. The 15. Particulars of Demands and Refunds page is displayed.

 

 

14.9.3. Enter the tax details.

14.9.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

 

14.9.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button.

 

 

14.9.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9 Dashboard page.

 

 

14.9.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled in the respective tile.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

14.10. 16. Supplies received from Composition taxpayers, deemed supply by job worker and goods sent on approval basis

14.10.1. Click the 16. Supplies received from Composition taxpayers, deemed supply by job worker and goods sent on approval basis tile to enter/ view the summary of supplies received from Composition taxpayers, deemed supply by job worker and goods sent on approval basis.

 

 

14.10.2. The 16. Supplies received from Composition taxpayers, deemed supply by job worker and goods sent on approval basis page is displayed.

 

 

 

14.10.3. Enter the taxable value and tax details.

14.10.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

14.10.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully". Click the OK button.

 

 

14.10.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9 Dashboard page.

 

 

14.10.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled in the respective tile.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

14.11. 17. HSN wise summary of Outward Supplies

14.11.1. Click the 17. HSN wise summary of Outward Supplies tile to enter/ view HSN wise summary of outward supplies made during the financial year.

 

 

14.11.2. The 17. HSN wise summary of Outward Supplies page is displayed.

Note: You can proceed without reporting HSN code if nil liability is reported.

 

 

14.11.3. (a) If the taxpayer had aggregate turnover upto Rs. 5 cr in the preceding financial year, the drop-down list will show either 4-digit, 6-digit or 8-digit HSN values.

 

14.11.3. (b) If the taxpayer had more than Rs. 5-crore aggregate turnover in the preceding financial year, the drop-down list will show either 6-digit or 8-digit HSN values.
 

Note: If a taxpayer had a turnover of more than Rs. 5 crores in previous financial year and has nil liability in the current financial year, then Table-17 will be non-mandatory for that taxpayer in current financial year. This will be applicable from financial year 2021-22. 

 

 

14.11.4. In the UQC field, select UQC. For supply related to services, ‘OTH-Others’ may be selected from the dropdown.

14.11.5. In the Total Quantity field, enter the quantity. For supply related to services, report ‘zero’.

14.11.6. In the Total Taxable Value field, enter the Total Taxable Value of the outward supply.

14.11.7. Select whether supply is applicable for concessional rate of tax.

14.11.8. Select the Rate of tax from the drop-down list.

14.11.9. Enter the Central TAX, Integrated Tax, State/UT Tax and CESS amount.

Note: You can enter negative values in Total Taxable Value, Integrated Tax, Central Tax, State/UT Tax and Cess, Total Quantity, if required.

14.11.10. Click the ADD button.

 

 

Note 1: An error message will be displayed on screen if sum of reported tax amount is beyond tolerance limit i.e. Rs. 10.

 

Note 2: Starting from financial year 2024-25, the following screen will be displayed for Goods. The checkbox for opting for the concessional rate of tax has been removed from Table 17. 

 

Note 3: Similarly, starting from financial year 2024-25, the following screen will be displayed for Services. The checkbox for opting for the concessional rate of tax has been removed from Table 17. 

 

 

14.11.11. The HSN details are added. You can click the ADD/ DELETE button to add or delete the details.

 

 

14.11.12. Similarly, add other details and click the SAVE button.

 

 

14.11.13. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully".

 

 

14.11.14. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9 Dashboard page.

 

 

14.11.15. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled in the respective tile.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

14.12. 18. HSN wise summary of Inward Supplies

14.12.1. Click the 18. HSN wise summary of Inward Supplies tile to enter/ view HSN wise summary of inward supplies received during the financial year.

 

 

14.12.2. The 18. HSN wise summary of Inward Supplies page is displayed.

 Note: You can proceed without reporting HSN code if nil liability is reported.

 

 

14.12.3. In the HSN field, enter the applicable provision of reporting HSN or Service Classification Code of the inward supplied.

 

 

14.12.4. In the UQC field, select UQC. For supply related to services, ‘OTH-Others’ may be selected from the dropdown.

14.12.5. In the Total Quantity field, enter the quantity. For supply related to services, report ‘zero’.

14.12.6. In the Total Taxable Value field, enter the Total Taxable Value of the inward supply.

14.12.7. Select whether supply is applicable for concessional rate of tax.

14.12.8. Select the Rate of tax from the drop-down list.

14.12.9. Enter the Central TAX, Integrated Tax, State/UT Tax and CESS amount.

Note: You can enter negative values in Total Taxable Value, Integrated Tax, Central Tax, State/UT Tax and Cess, Total Quantity, if required.

14.12.10. Click the ADD button.

 

 

Note 1: An error message will be displayed on screen if sum of reported tax amount is beyond tolerance limit i.e. Rs. 10.

 

Note 2: Starting from financial year 2024-25, the following screen will be displayed for Goods. The checkbox for opting for the concessional rate of tax has been removed from Table 18.

 

 

Note 3: Similarly, starting from financial year 2024-25, the following screen will be displayed for Services. The checkbox for opting for the concessional rate of tax has been removed from Table 18. 

 

 

14.12.11. The HSN details are added. You can click the ADD/ DELETE button to add or delete the details.

 

 

Note: Starting from financial year 2024-25, in case of any duplicate entry found, the following error message will be displayed for Goods. 

 

 

Note 2: Similarly, starting from financial year 2024-25, in case of any duplicate entry found, the following error message will be displayed for Services. 

 

 

14.12.12. Similarly, add other details and click the SAVE button.

 

 

14.12.13. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully".

 

 

14.12.14. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9 DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9 Dashboard page.

 

14.12.15. You will be directed to the GSTR-9 Dashboard landing page and tile summary will be updated based on the details filled in the respective tile.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

D. Preview Form GSTR-9 Summary

Once you have entered all details, click the relevant PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR9 (PDF) or (EXCEL) button. This will download the draft Summary page of Form GSTR-9 for your review. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections carefully before computing liabilities.  

 

Click on the links below to know more:

 

15.1. Preview Form GSTR-9 (PDF)

15.2. Preview Form GSTR-9 (Excel)

15.1. Preview Form GSTR-9 (PDF)

15.1.1. Once you have entered all details, click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR9 (PDF) button. This button will download the draft Summary page of Form GSTR-9 for your review in PDF format. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections carefully before computing liabilities. The PDF file generated would bear watermark of draft as the details are yet to be filed by you.

 

 

15.1.2. The system computed Form GSTR-9 in PDF format is displayed.

Note 1: You can make changes to Form GSTR-9, if needed after review.

 

 

Note 2: From FY 2023-24 onwards, following preview PDF will be downloaded in the system.

 

 

 

 

For financial year 2024-25, the following PDF will be displayed.

 

Go back to the main menu

15.2. Preview Form GSTR-9 (Excel)

15.2.1. Once you have entered all details, you can click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR9 (Excel) button. This button will download the draft Summary page of Form GSTR-9 for your review in excel format. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections carefully before computing liabilities.

Note: Once you click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR9 (Excel) button, a link "click here to download Excel - File" will be created below the button.

 

 

15.2.2. Once the file is downloaded, click on the link available below the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9 (EXCEL) button. To generate the latest file, click on the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9 (EXCEL) button again.

 

 

15.2.3. The zip file is downloaded.

 

 

15.2.4. Extract the Zip file.

 

 

15.2.5. Open the excel file to view Form GSTR-9.

 

 

15.2.6. Form GSTR-9 is downloaded in excel format.

Note 1: You can make changes to Form GSTR-9 online on the GST Portal, if needed, after review of details in Form GSTR-9 in downloaded excel format.

 

 

Note 2: From FY 2023-24 onwards following excel file will be downloaded in the system.

 

Go back to the main menu

E. Compute Liabilities and Pay Late Fees (if any)

16. Click the COMPUTE LIABILITIES button for computation of late fees (if any).

 

 

Note:

1. After COMPUTE LIABILITIES button is clicked, details provided in various tables are processed on the GST Portal at the back end and Late fee liabilities, if any, are computed. Late fee is calculated, if there is delay in filing of annual return beyond due date.

2. In case, records (or data as submitted while filing Form GSTR 9) are processed with error or are under processing at the back end, a warning message is displayed. If records are still under processing, wait for processing to be completed at the back end. For records which are processed with error, go back and take action on those records for making corrections.  

 

17. A message is displayed on top page of the screen that "Compute Liabilities request has been received. Please check the status after sometime". Click the Refresh button.

 

 

18. Once the status of Form GSTR-9 is Ready to File and liabilities are calculated, 19. Late fee payable and paid tile gets enabled.

19. Click the 19. Late fee payable and paid tile or on "Proceed to File" button.

 

 

20. The Late fee payable and paid page is displayed.

 

21.1. Available cash balance as on date in Electronic Cash Ledger is shown to the taxpayer in "Cash Ledger Balance" table.

 

 

21.2 (a). Scenario 1: If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then additional cash required to be paid by taxpayer is shown in the "Additional Cash Required" column. You may create challan for the additional cash directly by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

ii. The Create Challan page is displayed.

 

Note: Click here to know how to generate challan.

 

21.2 (b). Scenario 2: If available cash balance in Electronic cash ledger is more than the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash is required for paying liability. You can preview and then file Form GSTR-9, as explained in below steps.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

F. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9

22.1. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9 in PDF Format

22.2. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9 in Excel Format

 

23.1. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9 in PDF Format

 

22.1.1. Click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9 (PDF) to download the Form GSTR-9 in PDF format. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections carefully before filing Form GSTR-9.

 

 

22.1.2. Form GSTR-9 is downloaded in PDF format.

Note: You can make changes to Form GSTR-9, if needed after review.

 

 

 

22.2. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9 in Excel Format

 

22.2.1. Click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9 (EXCEL) to download the Form GSTR-9 in excel format. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections carefully before filing Form GSTR-9.

Note: You can make changes to Form GSTR-9 online on the GST Portal, if needed, after review of details in Form GSTR-9 in downloaded excel format.

 

 

 

22.2.2. Once the file is downloaded, click on the link available below the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9 (EXCEL) button. Follow the steps as explained earlier to extract the zip file and open the downloaded excel file.

Note: To view the same file, you can click the link available below the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9 (EXCEL) button. To generate the latest file, click on the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9 (EXCEL) button again.

 

 

 

 

 

Go back to the main menu

G. File Form GSTR-9 with DSC/ EVC

23. Select the Declaration checkbox.

24. Select the Authorized Signatory from the drop-down list.

25. Click the FILE GSTR-9 button.

Note:

File button gets enabled only if you have-

No ‘Additional cash (which) is required’ to pay for late fees, if any.

Clicked on ‘Preview Draft GSTR-9 PDF’ button to review the details entered.

Clicked on declaration check box and have selected authorized signatory details from the drop-down list.

Note: Once Form GSTR-9 is filed, you cannot make any changes.

 

 

26. Click the YES button.

 

 

27. The Submit Application page is displayed. Click the FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button.

 

 

28.1. FILE WITH DSC:

a. Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

28.2. FILE WITH EVC:

a. Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VALIDATE OTP button.

 

 

29. The success message is displayed and ARN is displayed. Status of the Form GSTR-9 return changes to “Filed”.

 

 

After Form GSTR-9 is filed:

ARN is generated on successful filing of the return in Form GSTR-9.

An SMS and an email is sent to the taxpayer on his registered mobile and email id.

Electronic Cash ledger and Electronic Liability Register Part-I will get updated on successful set-off of liabilities (Late fee only).

Filed form GSTR-9 will be available for view/download in PDF and Excel format.

 

30. Message will be displayed to directly navigate to Form DRC-03, to pay additional liabilities, if any declared in Form GSTR-9.

 

 

 

30.1. Form GST DRC-03 page is displayed.

Click here to know more about Form GST DRC-03.

 

 

 

31. Click the DOWNLOADED GSTR-9 (EXCEL) to download the file Form GSTR-9 in excel format.

 

 

32. Once the file is downloaded, click on the link available below the DOWNLOADED GSTR-9 (EXCEL) button. To generate the latest file, click on the download button again.

 

 

33. Click the BACK button to go back to GSTR-9 page.

 

 

34. Click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-9 DETAILS (PDF) to download the filed Form GSTR-9 in PDF format.

 

Note: Additional liability not reported earlier at the time of filing Form GSTR-3B, which is declared in Form GSTR-9 are required to be paid through Form GST DRC-03.

 

 

 

35. Filed Form GSTR-9 is downloaded in PDF format.

 

Note: From FY 2023-24 onwards, following Form GSTR-9 filed PDF will be downloaded in the system.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[69] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_gstr9.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > About Form GSTR-9  
1. What is Form GSTR-9?

Form GSTR-9 is an annual return to be filed once for each financial year, by the registered taxpayers who were regular taxpayers, including SEZ units and SEZ developers. The taxpayers are required to furnish details of purchases, sales, input tax credit or refund claimed or demand created etc. in this return.

2. Who need to file Annual Return in Form GSTR-9?

Form GSTR-9 is to be filed by a person who is registered as a normal taxpayer, including SEZ unit or SEZ developer and the taxpayers who have withdrawn from the composition scheme to normal taxpayer any time during the financial year.

Note:

Composition taxpayers can file Annual Return in Form GSTR-9A.
Annual Return is not required to be filed by casual taxpayer / Non Resident taxpayer / ISD/ OIDAR Service Providers.
3. What is the difference between Form GSTR-9 and Form GSTR-9C?

Form GSTR-9 is required to be filed by every person registered as normal taxpayer. However, certain class of taxpayers may be exempted from filing Form GSTR-9 by way of Notifications issued by Government of India from time to time.
Form GSTR-9C is required to be filed by every registered person whose aggregate turnover is above a certain threshold during the financial year, as notified by way of Notifications issued by Government of India from time to time. Such taxpayers are required to get their accounts audited by Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant and need to submit a copy of audited annual accounts and reconciliation statement.

4. Is it mandatory to file Form GSTR-9?

Yes, it’s mandatory to file Form GSTR-9 for normal taxpayers. It may, however, be made optional for taxpayers having AATO up to a certain threshold, from time to time.

Opt in and Opt out of composition & Form GSTR-9  
5. I am a regular/ normal taxpayer for part period and composition taxpayer for part period during the financial year. Do I need to file Form GSTR-9 or Form GSTR-9A?

You are required to file both Form GSTR-9 and Form GSTR-9A, for the respective periods.

The period during which the taxpayer remained as composition taxpayer, Form GSTR-9A is required to be filed. And, for period for which the taxpayer is registered as normal taxpayer, Form GSTR-9 is required to be filed.

For example: If the taxpayer had opted for Composition scheme from 1st April to 31st December, then Form GSTR-9A is required to be filed for this period. And, if the taxpayer had opted out of composition scheme and registered as a normal taxpayer during period say 1st January to 31st March, then for this period Form GSTR-9 is required to be filed.

6. I got my registration cancelled in the financial year. Can I file Form GSTR-9?

Yes, the annual return needs to be filed even if the taxpayer has got his registration cancelled during the said financial year.  

7. I have opted for composition scheme in the financial year. Do I need to file Form GSTR-9?

Taxpayers who have opted for the composition scheme need to file Form GSTR-9 for the period during which they were registered as a normal taxpayer.

8. I opted out of composition scheme in the financial year. Do I need to file Form GSTR-9?

Taxpayer who have opted out from the composition scheme during the relevant financial year is required to file Form GSTR-9 for the period they paid the tax at normal rates.

Pre-conditions of Filing Form GSTR-9  
9. What are the pre-conditions for filing Form GSTR-9?

Pre-conditions for filing of Form GSTR-9 are:

Taxpayer must have active GSTIN during the relevant financial year as a normal/regular taxpayer even for a single day.

Taxpayer has filed all applicable returns i.e. Form GSTR-1/IFF and Form GSTR-3B of the relevant financial year before filing the Annual Return.

Filing Nil Form GSTR-9  
10. Can I file nil Form GSTR-9?

Nil Form GSTR-9 can be filed for the Financial year, if you have: -

NOT made any outward supply (commonly known as sale); AND

NOT received any goods/services (commonly known as purchase); AND

NO other liability to report; AND

NOT claimed any credit; AND

NOT claimed any refund; AND

NOT received any order creating demand; AND

There is no late fee to be paid etc.

Filing Form GSTR-9  
11. From where can I as a taxpayer file Form GSTR-9?

Navigate to Services > Returns > Annual Return to file Form GSTR-9.

12. Is there any Offline Tool for filing Form GSTR-9?

Yes. Form GSTR-9 return can be filed through offline tool. Click here for details.

13. By when do I need to file Form GSTR-9?

The due date for filing Form GSTR-9 for a particular financial year is 31st December of subsequent financial year or as extended by Government through notification from time to time.

14. Can the date of filing of Form GSTR-9 be extended?

Yes, date of filing of Form GSTR-9 can be extended by Government through notification.

15. Form GSTR-9 return is required to be filed at entity level or GSTIN level?

Form GSTR-9 return is required to be filed at GSTIN level i.e. for each registration. If taxpayer has obtained multiple GST registrations, under the same PAN, whether in the same State or different States, he/she is required to file annual return for each registrations separately, where the GSTIN was registered as a normal taxpayer for some time during the financial year or for the whole of the financial year.

16. I have not filed all my applicable return(s)/ statement(s) during the financial year. Still, can I file Annual return without filing of those applicable return(s)/ statement(s)?

No. You cannot file return in Form GSTR-9 without filing Form GSTR-1 and Form GSTR-3B for all applicable periods during the relevant financial year.

Entering Details in Tables of Form GSTR-9  
17. In which tables of Form GSTR-9, the details are required to be provided?

Details are required to be provided in Form GSTR-9 in the following tables:

1. 4.Details of advances, inward and outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is payable: To enter/ view the summary of outward/ inward supplies made during the financial year

2. 5.Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is not payable: To enter/ view the summary of non-taxable outward supplies made during the financial year

3. 6.Details of ITC availed during the financial year: To enter the summary of ITC availed during the financial year

4. 7.Details of ITC reversed and Ineligible ITC for the financial year: To enter the summary of ITC reversed or ineligible for the financial year

5. 8. Other ITC related information: To enter the ITC availed during the financial year

6. 9.Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year: To enter/ view the tax (including Interest, Late Fee, Penalty & Others) paid during the financial year

7. 10,11,12&13 Details of the previous Financial Year's transactions reported in next Financial Year: To enter the summary of transactions reported in next financial year

8. 14. Differential tax paid on account of declaration in table no. 10 & 11: To enter the total tax paid on transactions reported in next financial year

9. 15. Particulars of Demands and Refunds: To enter particulars of demands and refunds during the financial year

10. 16. Supplies received from Composition taxpayers, deemed supply by job worker and goods sent on approval basis: To enter the summary of supplies received from Composition taxpayers, deemed supply by job worker and goods sent on approval basis

11. 17. HSN wise summary of Outward Supplies: To enter HSN wise summary of outward supplies made during the financial year

12. 18. HSN wise summary of Inward Supplies: To enter HSN wise summary of inward supplies received during the financial year

18. Do I need to provide/ update details in all the tables in Form GSTR-9 before filing?

You are required to provide/ update details only in those tables which are relevant to your business.

19. Which tables in Form GSTR-9 has auto-populated data from filed Form GSTR-1 and Form GSTR-3B?

Below tables in Form GSTR-9 has auto-populated data, from already filed Form GSTR-1 and Form GSTR-3B of the relevant financial year:

4. Details of advances, inward and outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is payable

5. Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year on which tax is not payable

6A Total amount of input tax credit availed through FORM GSTR-3B (sum total of Table 4A of FORM GSTR-3B)

6G- Input Tax credit received from ISD

6K- Transition Credit through TRAN-I (including revisions if any)

6L- Transition Credit through TRAN-II

9. Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year

20. Which table in Form GSTR-9 has auto-populated data from Form GSTR-2A till FY 2022-23 and GSTR-2B FY 2023-24 onwards?

Below table in Form GSTR-9 has auto-populated data:

Table no. 8A: ITC as per GSTR-2A/2B (Table 3 & 5 thereof)

21. Can I edit auto-populated data from filed Form GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B in Form GSTR-9?

Yes, you can edit auto-populated data from filed Form GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B in Form GSTR-9, except data in below mentioned tables:

Table no. 6A: Total amount of input tax credit availed through FORM GSTR-3B (sum total of Table 4A of FORM GSTR-3B)

Table no. 8A: ITC as per GSTR-2A/2B (Table 3 & 5 thereof)

Table no. 9: Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed for the financial year (Except tax payable column)

22. Can I enter two digit codes for HSN in Form GSTR-9?

No, you cannot enter two digit codes for all HSN codes, including codes starting with code 99, in Form GSTR-9.

Note: For HSN codes starting with 99, you are not required to provide UQC and Qty details.

23. Can I enter negative amount in Form GSTR-9?

Yes, you can enter negative amount in Form GSTR-9.

24. What is the use of 4G1 and 5C1 rows added in Table 4 & 5 of Form GSTR-9 from FY 2023-24?

• G1 row in Table 4 of Form GSTR-9 is added for entering supplies on which e-commerce operator is required to pay tax as per section 9(5) (including amendments, if any) [E-commerce operator to report]
• C1 row in Table 5 of Form GSTR-9 is added for entering supplies on which tax is to be paid by e-commerce operators as per section 9(5) [Supplier to report].

Form GSTR-9 & Consolidating Summary
25. Can I download system computed values of Form GSTR-9?

Yes, taxpayer can download the system computed values for Form GSTR-9 in PDF format. This will help the taxpayer to use it for reference while filling Form GSTR-9.

26. Will consolidated summary of Form GSTR-1 be made available for the returns filed during the financial year?

Yes. Consolidated summary of all filed Form GSTR-1 statement for the relevant financial year is available for download in PDF format.

Navigate to Services > Returns > Annual Return > Form GSTR-9 (PREPARE ONLINE) > DOWNLOAD GSTR-1 SUMMARY (PDF) option.

27. Will consolidated summary of Form GSTR-3B be made available for the returns filed during the financial year?

Yes. Consolidated summary of all returns filed in Form GSTR-3B for the relevant financial year is available for download in PDF format.

Navigate to Services > Returns > Annual Return > Form GSTR-9 (PREPARE ONLINE) > DOWNLOAD GSTR-3B SUMMARY (PDF) option.

28. Can I download the document wise details of Form GSTR-2A, which are considered for computing the values of Table 8A in Form GSTR-9?

Yes, taxpayer can download the document wise details of Form GSTR-2A, which has been considered for determining the values for Table 8A in Form GSTR-9, in Excel format. The details of Table B2B, B2BA, CDNR and CDRA will be available in the downloaded excel. This will help the taxpayer in reconciling the values of Table 8A and will facilitate in filling Form GSTR-9.

Navigate to Services > Returns > Annual Return > Form GSTR-9 (PREPARE ONLINE) > DOWNLOAD TABLE 8A DOCUMENT DETAILS option.

 

In case, the file size of excel is large, the same will be available in multi parts to ensure that the documents are easily downloaded. 

29. Can I download document wise details of Form GSTR-2B, which are considered for computing the values of Table 8A in Form GSTR-9?

Yes, from FY 2023-24 onwards taxpayer can download document wise details of Form GSTR-2B, which has been considered for determining the values for Table 8A in Form GSTR-9, in Excel format. The details of Table B2B, B2BA, CDNR, CDRA, ECO and ECOA will be available in the downloaded excel. This will help the taxpayer in reconciling the values of Table 8A and will facilitate in filling Form GSTR-9.
Navigate to Services > Returns > Annual Return > Form GSTR-9 (PREPARE ONLINE) > DOWNLOAD TABLE 8A DOCUMENT DETAILS option.

 

30. Which table details are available in downloaded excel sheet of Form GSTR-2B?

From FY 2023-24 onwards the details of Table B2B, B2BA, CDNR, CDRA, ECO and ECOA will be available in the downloaded excel. This will help the taxpayer in reconciling the values of Table 8A and will facilitate in filling Form GSTR-9.

31. Which table details are available in downloaded excel sheet of Form GSTR-2A?

The details of Table B2B, B2BA, CDNR and CDNRA will be available in the downloaded excel. This will help the taxpayer in reconciling the values of Table 8A and will facilitate in filling Form GSTR-9.

Filing & Paying Late Fee
32. Can I change the details after clicking on ‘Proceed to File" button?

Yes. You can change/edit the details before filing of Form GSTR-9 return. However, the auto-populated data will not be editable in the following fields.

• Table no. 6A: Total amount of input tax credit availed through Form GSTR-3B (sum total of Table 4A of Form GSTR-3B)

• Table no. 8A: ITC as per Form GSTR-2A till FY 2022-23/Form GSTR-2B FY 2023-24 onwards (Table 3 & 5 thereof).

• Table no. 9 (Except tax payable column)   

33. What happens after COMPUTE LIABILITIES button is clicked?

After COMPUTE LIABILITIES button is clicked, details provided in various tables are processed on the GST Portal at the back end and Late fee liabilities, if any, are computed. Late fee is calculated, if there is delay in filing of annual return beyond due date.

34. Is there any late fee for late filing of Form GSTR-9?

Yes, there is a late fee for filing of Form GSTR-9 beyond the due date.

35. When "Late fee payable and paid" tile in Form GSTR-9 gets enabled?

Once the status of Form GSTR-9 is Ready to File and liabilities are calculated, 19. Late fee payable and paid tile gets enabled for filing of Form GSTR-9 by the taxpayer.

36. Can I file Form GSTR-9 return without paying late fee (if applicable)?

No. You can’t file Form GSTR-9 without payment of late fee for Form GSTR-9, if same is filed after the due date.

37. Is there any option to make payment other than late fee (if applicable) in Form GSTR-9?

After filing of your return in Form GSTR-9, you will get a link to navigate to Form GST DRC-03 to pay tax, if any. Any additional payment can be made using Form GST DRC-3 functionality only through utilisation from Electronic Cash Ledger.

Additional Liability & it's Payment  
38. In Form GSTR-9, can additional liability not reported earlier in Form GSTR-3B be declared?

Yes, additional liability not reported earlier at the time of filing Form GSTR-3B can be declared in Form GSTR-9. The additional liability so declared in Form GSTR-3B are required to be paid through Form GST DRC-03.

39. Can I claim or report any unclaimed ITC through Annual Return?

No. You cannot claim ITC through Form GSTR-9.

40. What do I need to do if available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities?

Available cash balance as on date in Electronic Cash Ledger is shown to the taxpayer in "Cash Ledger Balance" table. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then additional cash required to be paid by taxpayer is shown in the "Additional Cash Required" column. You may create challan for the additional cash directly by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

41. When "FILE GSTR-9" button gets enabled?

File button gets enabled only if you have-

No ‘Additional cash (which) is required’ to pay for late fees, if any.

Clicked on ‘Preview Draft GSTR-9 PDF’ button to review the details entered.

Clicked on declaration check box and have selected authorized signatory details from the drop-down list.

42. Do I need to click "Preview Draft GSTR-9 Excel" button to enabled "FILE GSTR-9" button?

It is not mandatory to click on "Preview Draft GSTR-9 Excel" button to enable "FILE GSTR-9" button for filing of return.

Previewing & Signing Form GSTR-9 
43. What are the modes of signing Form GSTR-9?

You can file Form GSTR-9 using DSC or EVC.

44. I am getting a warning message that records are under processing or processed with error while filing Form GSTR-9. What do I do?

In case, records (or data as submitted while filing Form GSTR-9) are processed with error or are under processing at the back end, a warning message is displayed. If records are still under processing, wait for processing to be completed at the back end. For records which are processed with error, go back to Form GSTR-9 and take action on those records for making corrections.

45. Can I preview Form GSTR-9 before filing?

Yes, you can view/download the preview of Form GSTR-9 in PDF and Excel format by clicking on ‘PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9 (PDF)' and ‘PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9 (EXCEL)' button before filing Form GSTR-9 on the GST Portal.

Post Filing of Form GSTR-9  
46. Can I revise Form GSTR-9 return after filing?

No, you cannot revise Form GSTR-9 return after filing.

47. What happens after Form GSTR-9 is filed?

After Form GSTR-9 is filed:

ARN is generated on successful filing of the return in Form GSTR-9.

An SMS and an email is sent to the taxpayer on his registered mobile and email id.

Electronic Cash ledger and Electronic Liability Register Part-I will get updated on successful set-off of liabilities (Late fee only).

Filed form GSTR-9 will be available for view/download in PDF and Excel format.

48. I have received an intimation that a new GSTIN has been assigned to me for UT of Ladakh. Under which GSTIN I need to file my Annual return?

You need to file your annual returns for both Old GSTIN and New GSTIN.

For financial year 2019-20, the Annual Return for the period upto 31st December, 2019 is to be filed for the old GSTIN and for the period from 1st January 2020, the Annual Return for the period upto 31st March, 2020 is to be filed for the new GSTIN.

49. I have received an intimation that a new GSTIN has been assigned to me for UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. Under which GSTIN I need to file my Annual return?

You need to file your annual returns for both Old GSTIN and New GSTIN for financial year 2020-21.

For financial year 2020-21, the Annual Return for the period upto 31st July, 2020 is to be filed for the old GSTIN and for the period from 1st August 2020, the Annual Return for the period upto 31st March, 2021, is to be filed for the new GSTIN.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[70] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/returns/gstr9a

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Filing Form GSTR-9A - Annual Return for Composition Taxpayer
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[71] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_gstr9a.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > GSTR-9A
How can I prepare and file Form GSTR-9A return?

Form GSTR-9A is an annual return to be filed once for each financial year by taxpayers who have opted for the composition scheme any time during the said financial year. It consists of details regarding the outward supplies, inward supplies, taxes paid, claimed any refund or demand created or input tax credit availed or reversed due to opting out or opting in to composition scheme. 

 

To prepare and file Form GSTR-9A return, perform the following steps:

 

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-9A - Annual Return for Composition Taxpayer page

B. Download Form GSTR-9A and Form GSTR-4 Summary

C. Enter details in various tiles

D. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A

E. Compute Liabilities and Pay Late Fees (if any)

F. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A

G. File Form GSTR-9A with DSC/ EVC

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-9A - Annual Return for Composition Taxpayer page

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3.1 Click the Services > Returns > Annual Return command.

 

 

 

3.2. Alternatively, you can also click the Annual Return link on the Dashboard.

 

 

 

4. The File Annual Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year for which you want to file the return from the drop-down list.

5. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

 

6. The File Returns page is displayed.

7. Please read the important message in the box carefully.

8. This page displays the due date of filing the returns, which the taxpayer is required to file using separate tiles. In the GSTR-9A tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button.

 

 

9. A question is displayed. You need to answer this question as to whether you want to file nil return for the financial year or not, to proceed further to the next screen.

Note:

Nil return can be filed by you for the financial year, if you have:

NOT made any outward supply (commonly known as sale); AND

NOT received any goods/services (commonly known as purchase); AND

NO other liability to report; AND

NOT claimed any credit; AND

NOT claimed any refund; AND

NOT received any order creating demand; AND

There is no late fee to be paid etc.

 

 

9.1. In case of Yes (File Nil GSTR-9A Return):

9.1.1 Select Yes for option 1 to file nil return.

9.1.2. Click the NEXT button and provide the turnover details in table 5 of the previous financial year related to all PAN, click on compute liabilities and proceed to file.

9.1.3. File Form GSTR-9A with DSC/ EVC

(Click on hyperlinks indicated to know more)

 

9.2. In case of No:

Note: The option for No is pre-filled in case the data from Form GSTR-4 returns is auto-populated.

10. Select No for option 1 to file GSTR-9A return.

11. Click the NEXT button.

 

 

12. The GSTR-9A Annual Return for Composition Taxpayers page is displayed.

 

 

13. Enter the Aggregate Turnover of Previous Financial Year and click the SAVE button.

Note:

Period for which taxpayer was a composition taxpayer during the year is displayed on the screen.

Please read the important message in the box "Steps to prepare your GSTR-9A return online" carefully.

You can click the Help link to know more details.

 

 

14. A confirmation message is displayed that request is accepted successfully.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

B. Download Form GSTR-9A and Form GSTR-4 Summary

Click on the links below to know more:

 

15.1. DOWNLOAD GSTR-9A SYSTEM COMPUTED SUMMARY (PDF)

15.2. DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 SUMMARY (PDF)

15.1. DOWNLOAD GSTR-9A SYSTEM COMPUTED SUMMARY (PDF)

15.1.1. You can click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-9A SYSTEM COMPUTED SUMMARY (PDF) to download system computed GSTR-9A in PDF format.

Note: GST Portal will calculate the GSTR-9A values in different tables, based on Form GSTR-4 filed by you. This is available as download in PDF format and will be auto populated in different tables as well in Form GSTR -9A, in editable form.

 

 

15.1.2. The system computed GSTR-9A in PDF format is displayed.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

15.2. DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 SUMMARY (PDF)

15.1.1. You can click the DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 SUMMARY (PDF) to download GSTR-4 summary for all tax periods in PDF format.

 

 

15.1.2. The GSTR-4 summary for all tax periods in PDF format is displayed.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

C. Enter details in various tiles

Click on the tile names to know more about and enter related details:

 

16.1. 6. Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year: To enter/ view the summary of outward supplies made during the financial year

16.2. 7. Details of inward supplies on which tax is payable on reverse charge basis (net of debit/credit notes) for the financial year: To enter/ view the summary of inward supplies liable to reverse charge for the financial year

16.3. 8. Details of other inward supplies for the financial year: To enter/ view the summary of other inward supplies for the financial year

16.4. 9. Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year: To enter/ view the tax (including Interest, Late Fee, Penalty & Others) paid during the financial year

16.5. 10,11,12 & 13. Particulars of the transactions for the previous FY declared in returns of April to September of current FY or upto date of filing of annual return of previous FY whichever is earlier: To enter the summary of transactions declared in next financial year

16.6. 14. Differential tax paid on account of declaration made in 10, 11, 12 & 13 above: To enter/ view the total tax paid on transactions reported in next financial year

16.7. 15. Other information -Particulars of Demands and Refunds: To enter/ view the particulars of demands and refunds during the financial year

16.8. 16. Details of credit reversed or availed: To enter/ view the summary of credit reversed or credit availed on opting in and/ or opting out of composition scheme

 

Go back to the main menu

16.1. 6. Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year

16.1.1. Click the 6. Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year tile to enter/ view the summary of outward supplies declared during the financial year.

Note: Data is auto-populated from the filed Form GSTR-4 returns.

 

 

16.1.2. The 6. Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year page is displayed.

 

 

16.1.3. Enter the Turnover details.

Note: You can click the Help link to know more details.

16.1.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

Note: If the details provided are +/- 20% from the auto-populated values, then cells would be highlighted in red for your reference and attention.

 

 

 

 

16.1.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully".

16.1.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9A DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9A Dashboard page.

16.1.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9A Dashboard landing page and the 6. Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year tile in Form GSTR-9A will reflect the total turnover along with tax details.

 

Go back to the main menu

16.2. 7. Details of inward supplies on which tax is payable on reverse charge basis (net of debit/credit notes) declared in returns filed during the financial year

16.2.1. Click the 7. Details of inward supplies on which tax is payable on reverse charge basis (net of debit/credit notes) for the financial year tile to enter/ view the summary of inward supplies liable to reverse charge declared during the financial year.

Note: Data is auto-populated from the filed Form GSTR-4 returns.

 

 

16.2.2. The 7. Details of inward supplies on which tax is payable on reverse charge basis (net of debit/credit notes) for the financial year page is displayed.

 

 

16.2.3. Enter the Taxable value and Tax details.

Note: You can click the Help link to know more details.

16.2.4. Click the SAVE button.

Note: If the details provided are +/- 20% from the auto-populated values, then cells would be highlighted in red for your reference and attention.

 

 

16.2.5. Click the YES button.

 

 

16.2.6. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully".

 

 

16.2.7. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9A DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9A Dashboard page.

 

 

 

16.2.8. You will be directed to the GSTR-9A Dashboard landing page and the 7. Details of inward supplies on which tax is payable on reverse charge basis (net of debit/credit notes) for the financial year tile in Form GSTR-9A will reflect the total taxable value along with tax details.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

16.3. 8. Details of other inward supplies for the financial year

16.3.1. Click the 8. Details of other inward supplies for the financial year tile to enter/ view the summary of other inward supplies declared during the financial year.

Note: Data is auto-populated from the filed Form GSTR-4 returns.

 

 

16.3.2. The 8. Details of other inward supplies for the financial year page is displayed.

 

 

16.3.3. Enter the Taxable value and Tax details.

Note: You can click the Help link to know more details.

16.3.4. Click the SAVE button.

Note: If the details provided are +/- 20% from the auto-populated values, then cells would be highlighted in red for your reference and attention.

 

 

16.3.5. Click the YES button.

 

 

16.3.6. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully".

 

 

16.3.7. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9A DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9A Dashboard page.

 

 

16.3.8. You will be directed to the GSTR-9A Dashboard landing page and the 8. Details of other inward supplies for the financial year tile in Form GSTR-9A will reflect the total taxable value along with tax details.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

16.4. 9. Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year

16.4.1. Click the 9. Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year tile to enter/ view the tax (including Interest, Late Fee, Penalty & Others) paid during the financial year.

Note: Data is auto-populated from the filed Form GSTR-4 returns.

 

 

16.4.2. The 9. Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year page is displayed.

 

 

16.4.3. Enter the Total Tax Payable details. Total tax paid will be auto-filled and will be non-editable.

Note: You can click the Help link to know more details.

16.4.4. Click the SAVE button.

Note: If the details provided are +/- 20% from the auto-populated values, then a warning message will be displayed and cells would be highlighted in red.

 

 

16.4.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully".

16.4.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9A DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9A Dashboard page.

16.4.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9A Dashboard landing page and the 9. Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year tile in Form GSTR-9A will reflect the total tax payable along with tax details.

 

Go back to the main menu

16.5. 10,11,12 & 13. Particulars of the transactions for the previous FY declared in returns of April to September of current FY or upto date of filing of annual return of previous FY whichever is earlier

16.5.1. Click the 10,11,12 & 13. Particulars of the transactions for the previous FY declared in returns of April to September of current FY or upto date of filing of annual return of previous FY whichever is earlier tile to enter/ view the summary of transactions declared in next financial year.

 

 

16.5.2. The 10,11,12 & 13. Particulars of the transactions for the previous FY declared in returns of April to September of current FY or upto date of filing of annual return of previous FY whichever is earlier page is displayed.

 

 

16.5.3. Enter the Turnover and Tax details.

Note: You can click the Help link to know more details.

16.5.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

16.5.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully".

 

 

16.5.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9A DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9A Dashboard page.

 

 

16.5.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9A Dashboard landing page and the 10,11,12 & 13. Particulars of the transactions for the previous FY declared in returns of April to September of current FY or upto date of filing of annual return of previous FY whichever is earlier tile in Form GSTR-9A will reflect the net outward and inward supplies along with tax details.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

16.6. 14. Differential tax paid on account of declaration made in 10, 11, 12 & 13 above

16.6.1. Click the 14. Differential tax paid on account of declaration made in 10, 11, 12 & 13 above tile to enter/ view the total tax paid on transactions reported in next financial year.

 

 

16.6.2. The 14. Differential tax paid on account of declaration made in 10, 11, 12 & 13 above page is displayed.

 

 

16.6.3. Enter the Total Tax Payable and Paid details.

Note: You can click the Help link to know more details.

16.6.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

16.6.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully".

 

 

16.6.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9A DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9A Dashboard page.

 

 

16.6.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9A Dashboard landing page and the 14. Differential tax paid on account of declaration made in 10, 11, 12 & 13 above tile in Form GSTR-9A will reflect the total tax payable along with tax details.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

16.7. 15. Other information - Particulars of Demands and Refunds

16.7.1. Click the 15. Other information - Particulars of Demands and Refunds tile to enter/ view the particulars of demands and refunds during the financial year.

 

 

16.7.2. The 15. Other information - Particulars of Demands and Refunds page is displayed.

 

 

16.7.3. Enter the Tax details.

Note: You can click the Help link to know more details.

16.7.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

16.7.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully".

 

 

16.7.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9A DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9A Dashboard page.

 

 

16.7.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9A Dashboard landing page and the 15. Other information - Particulars of Demands and Refunds tile in Form GSTR-9A will reflect the refund and tax details.

.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

16.8. 16. Details of credit reversed or availed

16.8.1. Click the 16. Details of credit reversed or availed tile to enter/ view the summary of credit reversed or credit availed on opting in and/ or opting out of composition scheme.

 

 

16.8.2. The 16. Details of credit reversed or availed page is displayed.

 

 

16.8.3. Enter the Tax details.

Note: You can click the Help link to know more details.

16.8.4. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

16.8.5. A confirmation message is displayed that "Save request is accepted successfully".

 

 

16.8.6. Click the BACK TO GSTR-9A DASHBOARD button to go back to the Form GSTR-9A Dashboard page.

 

 

16.8.7. You will be directed to the GSTR-9A Dashboard landing page and the 16. Details of credit reversed or availed tile in Form GSTR-9A will reflect the credit reversed and availed details.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

D. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A

17.1. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A in PDF Format

17.2. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A in Excel Format

 

17.1. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A in PDF Format

 

17.1.1. Click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9A (PDF) to download the Form GSTR-9A in PDF format. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections carefully before computing liabilities.

 

 

17.1.2. Form GSTR-9A is downloaded in PDF format.

Note: You can make changes to Form GSTR-9A, if needed after review.

 

 

17.2. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A in Excel Format

17.2.1. Click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9A (EXCEL) to download the Form GSTR-9A in excel format. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections carefully before computing liabilities.

 

 

17.2.2. Once the file is downloaded, click on the link available below the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9A (EXCEL) button. To generate the latest file, click on the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9A (EXCEL) button again.

 

 

17.2.3. The zip file is downloaded.

 

 

17.2.4. Extract the Zip file.

 

 

17.2.5. Open the excel file to view Form GSTR-9A.

 

 

17.2.6. Form GSTR-9A is downloaded in excel format.

Note: You can make changes to Form GSTR-9A, if needed after review.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

E. Compute Liabilities and Pay Late Fees (if any)

18. Click the COMPUTE LIABILITIES button for computation of late fees (if any).

 

 

Note:

After COMPUTE LIABILITIES button is clicked, details provided in various tables are processed on the GST Portal at the back end and Late fee liabilities, if any, are computed. Late fee is calculated, if there is delay in filing of annual return beyond due date.

 

19. In case, records (or data as submitted while filing Form GSTR 9A) are processed with error or are under processing at the back end, below screen is displayed. If records are still under processing, wait for processing to be completed at the back end. For records which are processed with error, go back and take action on those records.  

 

 

20. A message is displayed on top page of the screen that "Compute Liabilities request has been received. Please check the status after sometime". Click the Refresh button.

 

 

21. Once the status of Form GSTR-9A is Ready to File and liabilities are calculated, 17. Late fee payable and paid tile gets enabled.

22. Click the 17. Late fee payable and paid tile or on "Proceed to File" button.

 

 

23. The Late fee payable and paid page is displayed.

 

 

24.1. Available cash balance as on date in Electronic Cash Ledger is shown to the taxpayer in "Cash Ledger Balance" table.

 

 

24.2 (a). Scenario 1: If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then additional cash required to be paid by taxpayer is shown in the "Additional Cash Required" column. You may create challan for the additional cash directly by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

ii. The Create Challan page is displayed.

Note: In the Tax Liability Details grid, the Total Challan Amount field and Total Challan Amount (In Words) fields are auto-populated with total amount of payment to be made. You cannot edit this amount.

 

 

iii. Select the Payment Modes as E-Payment/ Over the Counter/ NEFT/RTGS.

iv. Click the GENERATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

v. The Challan is generated.

 

 

Note: 

In case of Net Banking: You will be directed to the Net Banking page of the selected Bank. The payment amount is shown at the Bank’s website.

In case of successful payment, you will be re-directed to the GST Portal where the transaction status will be displayed.

 

In case of Over the Counter:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Pay using Cash/ Cheque/ Demand Draft within the Challan’s validity period. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

In case of NEFT/ RTGS:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Mandate form will be generated simultaneously. Pay using Cheque or through your account with the selected Bank/ Branch. You can also pay using the account debit facility. The transaction will be processed by the Bank and RBI shall confirm the same within <2 hours>. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

Click here to refer the FAQs and User Manual on Making Payment.

 

24.2 (b). Scenario 2: If available cash balance in Electronic cash ledger is more than the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is more than the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash is required for paying liability.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

F. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A

25.1. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A in PDF Format

25.2. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A in Excel Format

 

25.1. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A in PDF Format

 

25.1.1. Click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9A (PDF) to download the Form GSTR-9A in PDF format. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections carefully before filing Form GSTR-9A.

 

 

25.1.2. Form GSTR-9A is downloaded in PDF format.

Note: You can make changes to Form GSTR-9A, if needed after review.

 

 

25.2. Preview Draft Form GSTR-9A in Excel Format

 

25.2.1. Click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9A (EXCEL) to download the Form GSTR-9A in excel format. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections carefully before filing Form GSTR-9A.

Note: You can make changes to Form GSTR-9A, if needed after review.

 

 

25.2.2. Once the file is downloaded, click on the link available below the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9A (EXCEL) button. Follow the steps as explained earlier to extract the zip file and open the downloaded excel file.

Note: To view the same file, you can click the link available below the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9A (EXCEL) button. To generate the latest file, click on the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9A (EXCEL) button again.

 

 

 

Go back to the main menu

G. File Form GSTR-9A with DSC/ EVC

26. Select the Declaration checkbox.

27. Select the Authorized Signatory from the drop-down list.

28. Click the FILE GSTR-9A button.

Note: Once Form GSTR-9A is filed, you cannot make any changes.

 

 

 

29. The Submit Application page is displayed. Click the FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button.

 

 

 

30.1. FILE WITH DSC:

a. Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

30.2. FILE WITH EVC:

a. Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VALIDATE OTP button.

 

 

31. The success message is displayed and ARN is displayed. Status of the GSTR-9A return changes to “Filed”.

 

 

 

Note: Entries will be posted in Electronic Liability Register Part – I and Electronic Cash Ledger.

 

32. Message will be displayed to directly navigate to Form DRC-03, to pay additional liabilities, if any declared in Form GSTR-9A.

 

 

 

32.1. Form GST DRC-03 page is displayed.

Click here to know more about Form GST DRC-03.

 

 

 

33. Click the DOWNLOADED GSTR-9A (EXCEL) to download the Form GSTR-9A in excel format.

 

 

34. Once the file is downloaded, click on the link available below the DOWNLOADED GSTR-9A (EXCEL) button. To generate the latest file, click on the download button again.

 

 

35. Click the BACK button to go back to GSTR-9A page.

 

 

36. Click the DOWNLOAD FILED GSTR-9A (PDF) to download the filed Form GSTR-9A in PDF format.

 

 

37. Form GSTR-9A is downloaded in PDF format.

 

 

Go back to the main menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[72] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_gstr9a.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > About Form GSTR-9A  
1. What is Form GSTR-9A?

Form GSTR-9A is an annual return to be filed once, for each financial year, by taxpayers who have opted for composition scheme, for any period during the said financial year. The taxpayers are required to furnish details regarding outward supplies, inward supplies, taxes paid, any refund claimed or demand created or input tax credit availed or reversed due to opting out or opting in to composition scheme.

2. Who needs to file Form GSTR-9A?

All taxpayers registered under the composition scheme under GST, for any period during the financial year, need to file Form GSTR-9A. This will include a taxpayer -

who have opted for composition scheme since registration and have never opted out subsequently; and

who have opted in for composition scheme any time during the financial year; and

who have opted in for composition but subsequently opted out any time during the year.

3. Who doesn't need to file Form GSTR-9A?

Following persons are not required to file Form GSTR-9A:

Regular taxpayer who have not opted in composition scheme for any period during the financial year

Non-resident taxable persons

Input service distributor

Casual Taxable Person

Persons required to Deduct Tax at Source u/s 51

Persons required to Collect Tax at Source u/s 52

4. Is it mandatory to file Form GSTR-9A?

Though it is required under GST laws to file Form GSTR-9A by Composition Taxpayers, Government may exempt or make it’s filing optional, for a certain class of Composition Taxpayers, through Notifications, as issued from time to time.

5. I am a regular/ normal taxpayer for part period and composition taxpayer for part period during the financial year. Do I need to file Form GSTR-9 or Form GSTR-9A?

You are required to file both Form GSTR-9 and Form GSTR-9A, for the respective periods.

The period during which the taxpayer remained as composition taxpayer, Form GSTR-9A is required to be filed. And, for period for which the taxpayer is registered as normal taxpayer, Form GSTR-9 is required to be filed.

For example: If the taxpayer had opted for Composition scheme from 1st April to 31st December, then Form GSTR-9A is required to be filed for this period. And, if the taxpayer had opted out of composition scheme and registered as a normal taxpayer during period say 1st January to 31st March, then for this period Form GSTR-9 is required to be filed.

6. I got my registration cancelled in the financial year. Am I required to file Form GSTR-9A?

The annual return is required to be filed even if the taxpayer has got his registration cancelled during the said financial year.  

7. I am not able to file Form GSTR-9A for the  FY 2019-20. Why?

Filing of annual return in Form GSTR-9A is not applicable for the FY 2019-20 and onwards. Filing of the said return, for the FY 2017-18 and 2018-19, is also optional.

Opt in and Opt out of composition & Form GSTR-9A  
8. I opted out of composition scheme in the financial year. Do I need to file Form GSTR-9A?

Taxpayers who have opted out from the composition scheme need to file Form GSTR-9A for the period during which they were registered under the composition levy scheme.

Pre-conditions of Filing Form GSTR-9A  
9. What are the pre-conditions for filing Form GSTR-9A?

Pre-conditions for filing of Form GSTR-9A are:

Taxpayer must have been registered in the relevant financial year and opted for composition scheme for even a day during the financial year.

Taxpayer has filed all applicable returns i.e. Form GSTR-4, quarterly  return of the relevant financial year, before filing the Annual Return.

Filing Nil Form GSTR-9A  
10. Can I file nil Form GSTR-9A?

Nil Form GSTR-9A can be filed for the Financial year, if you have: -

NOT made any outward supply (commonly known as sale); AND

NOT received any goods/services (commonly known as purchase); AND

NO other liability to report; AND

NOT claimed any credit; AND

NOT claimed any refund; AND

NOT received any order creating demand; AND

There is no late fee to be paid etc.

Filing Form GSTR-9A  
11. How can I as a taxpayer file Form GSTR-9A?

Navigate to Services > Returns > Annual Return to file Form GSTR-9A.

12. Can the date of filing of Form GSTR-9A be extended?

Yes, date of filing of Form GSTR-9A can be extended by Government through notification.

13. Are values in different tables of Form GSTR-9A auto calculated based on Form GSTR-4?

GST Portal calculates the GSTR-9A values in different tables, based on Form GSTR-4 filed by you. This is also available as download in PDF format and will be auto populated in different tables as well in Form GSTR -9A, in editable form.

14. Form GSTR-9A return is required to be filed at entity level or GSTIN level?

Form GSTR-9A return is required to be filed at GSTIN level i.e. for each registration. If taxpayer has obtained multiple GST registrations, under the same PAN, whether in the same State or different States, he/she is required to file annual return for each registrations separately, where the GSTIN was under composition scheme for some time during the financial year or for the whole of the financial year.

15. I have not filed all my applicable return(s)/ statement(s) during the financial year. Still, can I file Annual return without filing of those applicable return(s)/ statement(s)?

No. You cannot file return in Form GSTR-9A without filing Form GSTR-4, for the applicable period/periods, during the relevant financial year.

Entering Details in Tables of Form GSTR-9A
16. In which tables of Form GSTR-9A, the details are required to be provided?

Details are required to be provided in Form GSTR-9A in the following tables:

1. 6. Details of Outward supplies made during the financial year: To enter/ view the summary of outward supplies made during the financial year

2. 7. Details of inward supplies on which tax is payable on reverse charge basis (net of debit/credit notes) for the financial year: To enter/ view the summary of inward supplies liable to reverse charge for the financial year

3. 8. Details of other inward supplies for the financial year: To enter/ view the summary of other inward supplies for the financial year

4. 9. Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year: To enter/ view the tax (including Interest, Late Fee, Penalty & Others) paid as declared during the financial year

5. 10,11,12 & 13. Particulars of the transactions for the previous FY declared in returns of April to September of current FY or upto date of filing of annual return of previous FY whichever is earlier: To enter the summary of transactions declared in next financial year

6. 14. Differential tax paid on account of declaration made in 10, 11, 12 & 13 above: To enter/ view the total tax paid on transactions reported in next financial year

7. 15. Other information -Particulars of Demands and Refunds: To enter/ view the particulars of demands and refunds during the financial year

8. 16. Details of credit reversed or availed: To enter/ view the summary of credit reversed or credit availed on opting in and/ or opting out of composition scheme

17. Which tables in Form GSTR-9A has auto-populated data from filed Form GSTR-4?

Below tables in Form GSTR-9A has auto-populated data from filed Form GSTR-4:

 

1. 6. Details of Outward supplies on which tax is payable as declared in returns filed during the financial year

2. 7. Details of inward supplies on which tax is payable on reverse charge basis (net of debit/credit notes) declared in returns filed during the financial year

3. 8. Details of other inward supplies as declared in returns filed during the financial year

4. 9. Details of tax paid as declared in returns filed during the financial year

18. Can I edit auto-populated details in Form GSTR-9A?

Yes, you can edit auto-populated data in form GSTR-9A except tax paid column of Table no. 9. The outward supplies details can be edited in order to indicate actual supplies made and not merely outward supplies indicated in the Returns.

19. Do I need to provide information relating to all supplies made during the financial year?

Yes, you need to provide information relating to all supplies made during the financial year and not merely the supplies reported in the return.

20. Can I download system computed values of Form GSTR-9A?

Yes, taxpayer can download the system computed values for Form GSTR-9A in PDF format. This will help the taxpayer to use it as reference while filling Form GSTR-9A.

Form GSTR-9A & Consolidating Summary
21. Will consolidated summary of Form GSTR-4 be made available for the returns filed during the financial year?

Yes. Consolidated summary of all filed Form GSTR-4 statement for the relevant financial year is available for download in PDF format. Navigate to Services > Returns > Annual Return > Form GSTR-9A (PREPARE ONLINE) > DOWNLOAD GSTR-4 SUMMARY (PDF) option.

22. By when do I need to file Form GSTR-9A?

The due date for filing Form GSTR-9A for a particular financial year is 31st December of subsequent financial year or as extended by Government through notification from time to time.

Filing & Paying Late Fee
23. What happens after COMPUTE LIABILITIES button is clicked?

After COMPUTE LIABILITIES button is clicked, details provided in various tables are processed on the GST Portal at the back end and Late fee liabilities, if any, are computed. Late fee is calculated, if there is delay in filing of annual return beyond due date.

24. Is there any late fee for late filing of Form GSTR-9A?

Yes, there is a late fee for filing of Form GSTR-9A beyond the due date.

25. Can I file form GSTR-9A return without paying late fee (if applicable)?

No. You can’t file Form GSTR-9A without payment of late fee for Form GSTR-9A, if same is filed after the specified date.

26. Is there any option to make payment other than late fee (if applicable) in Form GSTR-9A?

After filing of your return in Form GSTR-9A, you will get link to navigate to Form GST DRC-03 to pay tax, if any. Any additional payment can be made using Form GST DRC-3 functionality only and that too by cash.

Additional Liability & it's Payment
27. In form GSTR-9A, can additional liability not reported earlier in Form GSTR-4 be declared?

Yes, additional liability not reported earlier at the time of filing Form GSTR-4 can be declared in Form GSTR-9A. The additional liability so declared in Form GSTR-9A are required to be paid through Form GST DRC-03.

28. What do I need to do if available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities?

Available cash balance as on date in Electronic Cash Ledger is shown to the taxpayer in "Cash Ledger Balance" table. If available cash balance in Electronic Cash Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then additional cash required to be paid by taxpayer is shown in the "Additional Cash Required" column. You may create challan for the additional cash directly by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

Previewing & Signing Form GSTR-9A 
29. Is there any Offline Tool for filing Form GSTR-9A?

Yes, offline tool is available for Form GSTR-9A. However, filing can take place only online on the GST Portal.

Using Offline Utility, you will be able to open the system-computed Form GSTR-9A based on filed Form GSTR-4 for editing as well as to prepare details of Table 6 to Table 16 of Form GSTR-9A. Once you have uploaded the prepared details on the GST Portal, you must file return on the portal with your Login credentials.

30. What are the modes of signing Form GSTR-9A?

You can file Form GSTR-9A using DSC or EVC.

 

(a) Digital Signature Certificate (DSC)

Digital Signature Certificates (DSC) are the digital equivalent (that is electronic format) of physical or paper certificates. A digital certificate can be presented electronically to prove one’s identity, to access information or services on the Internet or to sign certain documents digitally. In India, DSC are issued by authorized Certifying Authorities.

The GST Portal accepts only PAN based Class II and III DSC.

 

(b) Electronic Verification Code (EVC)

The Electronic Verification Code (EVC) authenticates the identity of the user at the GST Portal by generating an OTP. The OTP is sent to the mobile phone number of the registered mobile phone of Authorized Signatory filled in part A of the Registration Application.

31. I am getting a warning message that records are under processing or processed with error while filing Form GSTR-9A. What do I do?

In case, records (or data as submitted while filing Form GSTR-9A) are processed with error or are under processing at the back end, a warning message is displayed. If records are still under processing, wait for processing to be completed at the back end. For records which are processed with error, go back to Form GSTR-9A and take action on those records.

32. Can I preview Form GSTR-9A before filing?

Yes, you can view/download the preview of Form GSTR-9A in PDF and Excel format by clicking on ‘PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9A (PDF)' and ‘PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-9A (EXCEL)' button before filing Form GSTR-9A on the GST Portal.

Post Filing of Form GSTR-9A  
33. Can I revise Form GSTR-9A return after filing?

No, you cannot revise Form GSTR-9A return after filing.

34. What happens after Form GSTR-9A is filed?

After Form GSTR-9A is filed:

ARN is generated on successful filing of the return in Form GSTR-9A.

An SMS and an email is sent to the taxpayer on his registered mobile and email id.

Electronic Cash ledger and Electronic Liability Register Part-I will get updated on successful set-off of liabilities (Late fee only).

Filed form GSTR-9A will be available for view/download in PDF and Excel format.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[73] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/returns/gstr9c

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Filing Form GSTR-9C - Annual Reconciliation Statement for Normal Taxpayer
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[74] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/downloads/gstr9cofflineutility.pdf

[PDF Document - Skipped text extraction]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[75] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/downloads/gstr9cofflineutilitynew.pdf

[PDF Document - Skipped text extraction]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[76] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/returns/serverconnectionerror9c

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Troubleshooting Server Connection Error in Form GSTR-9C
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[77] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/returns/jsonsigningerror9c

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Troubleshooting JSON Signing in Form GSTR-9C
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[78] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/returns/runtimerror

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Troubleshooting Run Time Error while Opening JSON in Form GSTR-9C Offline Tool
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[79] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/returns/filegenerationprogresserrror

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Troubleshooting File Generation Progress Error while Downloading JSON in Form GSTR-9C
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[80] Filing Form GSTR-9 - Annual Return for Normal Taxpayer - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/returns/processedwitherror

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Troubleshooting Processed with Error while Opening JSON in Form GSTR-9C
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[81] Filing Form GSTR-10 - Final Return by Normal Taxpayer after Cancellation of Registration - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_GSTR-10.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Form GSTR-10
How can I create and file details in Form GSTR-10 (Final Return)?

To create and file details in Form GSTR-10 (Final Return), perform following steps:

 

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-10 page

B. Update Address for Future Correspondence

C. Update Particulars of certifying Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant

D. Enter details in various tiles

D(1). 8A, 8B & 8C - Goods Details With Invoices

D(2). 8D - Goods Details Without Invoices

E. Preview Form GSTR-10

F: Proceed to File and Payment of Tax

G. File Form GSTR-10 with DSC/ EVC

H. Download Filed Return

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-10 page

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Click the Services > Returns > Final Return command.

 

 

4. The Final Return page is displayed.

5. Please read the important message in the box carefully.

6. In the GSTR-10 tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button if you want to prepare the return by making entries on the GST Portal.

 

 

Note: If you haven’t filed Form GSTR 3B, GSTR-4(Quarterly), GSTR-1 and CMP-08 for any of the periods in the selected financial year Form GSTR-10 will not be enabled and following error message will be displayed on the screen.
 

 

7. The GSTR-10 - Final Return dashboard page is displayed.

 

B. Update Address for Future Correspondence

8. Enter the address for future correspondence.

Note: In cases, where application for cancellation is filed in Form REG-16, address details would be auto-populated from Form REG-16 and is shown in editable format.

9. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

10. A success message is displayed that request has been accepted successfully.

 

Particulars of certifying Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant C. Update (If applicable)

11. In case, you want to update details of Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant, enter the following details (if applicable) under the section on Particulars of certifying Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant:

a) Name of the certifying accounting firm.

b) Name of the certifying Chartered Accountant / Cost Accountant in the certifying firm.

c) Membership number of the certifying firm.

d) Date of certificate issued by the certifying accounting firm.

12. Attach a scanned copy of the certificate.

13. Click SAVE CA details.

 

 

14. A success message is displayed that upload is successful.

 

D. Enter details in various tiles

Click on the tile names to know more about and enter related details:

 

D(1).  8A, 8B & 8C - Goods Details With Invoices: To add details of goods with invoices.

D(2). 8D - Goods Details Without Invoices: To add details of goods without invoices.

D (1). 8A, 8B & 8C - Goods Details With Invoices

15.1. Click the 8A, 8B & 8C - Goods Details With Invoices tile to add details of details of goods with invoices of suppliers registered in GST or CX/VAT regime.

 

 

15.2. Click the ADD DETAILS button.

 

 

15.3. Select the Supplier's Registration, Registered Under (GST/CX/VAT) from the drop-down list.

 

 

15.4 (a). In case of supplier registered in GST regime:

15.4 (b). In case of supplier registered in CX/VAT regime:

 

15.4 (a). In case of supplier registered in GST regime:

 

i. In the GSTIN field, enter the GSTIN number of the supplier.

ii. In the Invoice/Bill of entry Number field, enter the invoice or bill of entry number.

iii. Select the Invoice/Bill of entry Date using the calendar.

iv. Enter the details of the item.

v. Click the ADD button.

vi. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

vii. A success message is displayed and invoice is added. You can click edit/delete button to edit/ delete the invoices (under Actions). Click the BACK button.

 

 

15.4 (b). In case of supplier registered in CX/VAT regime:

 

i. In the CX/VAT Registration Number field, enter the CX or VAT Registration number of the supplier.

ii. In the Invoice/Bill of entry Number field, enter the invoice number.

iii. Select the Invoice/Bill of entry Date using the calendar.

iv. Enter the details of the item.

v. Click the ADD button.

vi. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

vii. Once details are added, a success message is displayed and invoice is added. Similarly, add other details and click the BACK button.

 

 

15.5. You will be directed to the GSTR-10 Dashboard landing page and the 8A, 8B & 8C - Goods Details With Invoices box in Form GSTR-10 will reflect the total number of records, value of goods etc.

 

 

D(2). 8D - Goods Details Without Invoices

15.1. Click the 8D - Goods Details Without Invoices tile to add details of goods without invoices of suppliers registered in GST or CX/VAT regime.

 

 

15.2 (a) With GSTIN/CX/VAT Tab:

15.2 (b) Without GSTIN/CX/VAT Tab:

 

15.2 (a) With GSTIN/CX/VAT Tab:

 

i. Click the ADD DETAILS button.

 

 

ii. Select the Supplier's Registration, Registered Under (GST/CX/VAT) from the drop-down list.

 

 

15.2 (a.1) In case of supplier registered with GST regime:

15.2 (a.2 ) In case of supplier registered with CX/VAT regime:

 

15.2 (a.1) In case of supplier registered with GST regime:

iii. In the GSTIN field, enter the GSTIN number of the supplier.

iv. Enter the details of the item.

v. Click the ADD button.

vi. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

vii. A success message is displayed and record is added. You can click edit/delete button to edit/ delete the records (under Actions). Click the BACK button.

 

 

15.2 (a.2 ) In case of supplier registered with CX/VAT regime:

iii. In the CX/VAT Registration Number field, enter the CX or VAT Registration number of the supplier.

iv. Enter the details of the item.

v. Click the ADD button.

vi. Click the SAVE button.

 

 

vii. A success message is displayed and record is added. You can click edit/delete button to edit/ delete the records (under Actions). Click the BACK button.

 

 

15.2 (b) Without GSTIN/CX/VAT Tab:

 

i. Select the Without GSTIN/CX/VAT tab.

 

 

ii. Click the ADD DETAILS button.

 

 

iii. In the Sr.No field, enter the serial number.

iv. Select the Goods Type from the drop-down list.

v. In the Description of Goods field, enter the goods description.

vi. In the UQC field, select UQC.

vii. In the Total Quantity field, enter the quantity.

viii.  In the Total Taxable Value field, enter the Total Taxable Value of the outward supply.

ix. Enter the Integrated Tax, Central Tax and State/UT Tax details.

 

 

x. A success message is displayed and record is added. You can click edit/delete button to edit/ delete the records (under Actions). Click the BACK button.

 

 

15.3. You will be directed to the GSTR-10 Dashboard page and the 8D - Goods Details Without Invoices box in Form GSTR-10 will reflect the total number of records, value of goods etc.

 

E. Preview Form GSTR-10

16. Once you have entered all the details, click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-10 button. This button will download the draft Summary page of Form GSTR-10 for your review. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections carefully. The PDF file generated would bear watermark of draft as the details are yet to be filed.

 

 

17. The downloaded PDF is displayed.

 

 

F. Proceed to File and Payment of Tax

18. Click the PROCEED TO FILE button.

 

 

19. A message is displayed on top page of the screen that Proceed to file request has been received. Please check the status in sometime. Click the Refresh button.

 

 

20. Once the status of Form GSTR-10 is Ready to File, 9 & 10 - Amount of tax payable and paid tile gets enabled. Click the 9 & 10 - Amount of tax payable and paid tile.

 

 

21.1. The cash and credit ledger balance as available on date are shown in below table:

 

 

Note:
a.You can click the Late Fee Payable hyperlink to view calculation of late fee payable towards late filing of Form GSTR-3B.

 

 

b. You can click on CLICK HERE TO VIEW ADDITIONAL LATE FEE BREAKUP buttontovie aditioal late fee details.

 

 

c. Additional late fee deails are displayed. Click the CLOSE button to close the window. 

 

21.2 (a). Scenario 1: If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger/ Credit Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledger/ Credit Ledger is less than the amount required to offset the liabilities, then a part payment of liability can be made from available balance from the Electronic Cash Ledger/ Credit Ledger. You may directly create challan for payment of remaining part of liability by clicking on the CREATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

ii. The Create Challan page is displayed.

Note:

In the Tax Payment grid, the Total Challan Amount field and Total Challan Amount (In Words) fields are auto-populated with total amount of payment to be made.

You cannot edit the amount in challan.

iii. Select the Payment Modes as E-Payment/ Over the Counter/ NEFT/RTGS.

iv. Click the GENERATE CHALLAN button.

 

 

v. The Challan is generated.

 

 

Note: 

(i) In case of Net Banking: You will be directed to the Net Banking page of the selected Bank. The payment amount is shown at the Bank’s website. If you want to change the amount, abort the transaction and create a new challan.

In case of successful payment, you will be re-directed to the GST Portal where the transaction status will be displayed.

 

(ii) In case of Over the Counter:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Pay using Cash/ Cheque/ Demand Draft within the Challan’s validity period. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

(iii) In case of NEFT/ RTGS:

Take a print out of the Challan and visit the selected Bank. Mandate form will be generated simultaneously. Pay using Cheque through your account with the selected Bank/ Branch. You can also pay using the account debit facility. The transaction will be processed by the Bank and RBI shall confirm the same within <2 hours>. Status of the payment will be updated on the GST Portal after confirmation from the Bank.

 

Click here to refer the FAQs and User Manual on Making Payment.

 

21.2 (b). Scenario 2: If available balance in Electronic cash ledger/Credit Ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities

i. If available balance in Electronic Cash Ledge/Credit Ledger is more than/equal to the amount required to offset the liabilities, no additional cash is required for paying liability. Credit ledger can also be used to pay the tax liabilities. Credit utilization are auto populated and are editable. Reference for auto population of amount made at the time of cancelling of registration are also populated in the payment table.

22. Click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-10 button to view the summary page of Form GSTR-10 for your review. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections carefully before making payments.

 

 

23. The summary page of Form GSTR-10 is displayed.

 

G. File Form GSTR-10 with DSC/ EVC

24. Select the Declaration checkbox.

25. Select the Authorized Signatory from the drop-down list.

26. Click the FILE GSTR-10 button.

 

 

27. Click the YES button.

 

 

28. The Submit Application page is displayed. Click the FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button.

 

29.1. FILE WITH DSC:

a. Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

29.2. FILE WITH EVC:

a. Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VALIDATE OTP button.

30. The success message is displayed and ARN is displayed. Status of the Form GSTR-10 return changes to "Filed". Click the BACK button.

 

 

Note: After Form GSTR-10 is filed:

ARN is generated on successful filing of the Form GSTR-10 Return.

An SMS and an email are sent to the taxpayer on his registered mobile and email id.

Electronic Cash/ Credit ledger and Electronic Liability Register Part-I will get updated on successful set-off of liabilities.

The return filed shall be saved in the Record Search and will be made available to tax official also.

H. Download Filed Return

31. Click the DOWNLOAD FILED GSTR-10 button to download the filed return.

 

 

32. The PDF file generated would now bear watermark of final Form GSTR-10.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[82] Filing Form GSTR-10 - Final Return by Normal Taxpayer after Cancellation of Registration - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_GSTR-10.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Form GSTR-10
1. What is Form GSTR-10?

A taxable person whose GST registration is cancelled or surrendered has to file a return in Form GSTR-10 called as Final Return. This is statement of stocks held by such taxpayer on day immediately preceding the date from which cancellation is made effective. This return should be filed within three months of the date of cancellation or date of order of cancellation, whichever is later.

 

This return is intended to provide details of ITC involved in closing stock (including inputs and capital goods) to be reversed/ paid by the taxpayer.

2. Who needs to file Form GSTR-10?

Form GSTR-10 is required to be filed by every taxpayer except:

(i) Input Service Distributor

(ii) Non-resident taxable persons

(iii) Persons required to deduct tax at source (TDS) under section 51

(iv) Persons paying tax under section 10 (Composition Taxpayer)

(v) Persons required to collect tax at source (TCS) under section 52

(vi) Online Information and Database Access or Retrieval Services

3. What is the difference between Final Return and Annual Return?

Annual return has to be filed by every registered person under GST. Annual return is to be filed once a year in Form GSTR-9.

Final return is required to be filed by the persons whose registration has been cancelled or surrendered in Form GSTR-10.

4. Is it mandatory to file Form GSTR-10?

Yes, it is mandatory to file Form GSTR-10 in cases when GST registration is cancelled or surrendered.

5. Is it mandatory to file Form GSTR-3B and Form GSTR-1 before filing Form GSTR-10?

Yes, it is mandatory to file all applicable returns in Form GSTR-3B and statements in Form GSTR-1 before filing Form GSTR-10.  

6. Can I file nil return in Form GSTR-10?

Yes, you can file nil return in Form GSTR-10, if facts are so.

7. By when do I need to file the Form GSTR-10?

In case of cancellation, Final Return in Form GSTR-10 is required to be filed within 3 months from the date of effective date of cancellation or date of cancellation order, whichever is later.

8. From where can I as a taxpayer file Form GSTR-10?

Form GSTR-10 can be accessed on the GST Portal, post login by the taxpayer from below mentioned path.

The path is Services > Returns > Final Return.

9. Is there any Offline Tool for filing Form GSTR-10?

Yes. Return in Form GSTR-10 can be filed through offline mode as well.

10. What are the pre-conditions for filing Form GSTR-10?

Pre-conditions for filing of Form GSTR-10 are:

1. Taxpayer should have valid User ID and password.

2. Taxpayer should have applied for cancellation of registration and order has been issued for cancellation of registration or in case of suo-moto cancellation by tax authorities, an order has been issued for cancellation of registration.

11. I have applied for cancellation of registration. Can I still login to GST Portal to file Form GSTR-10?

Yes. Your log in will remain active for the remaining activities required to be fulfilled after cancellation.

12. Can I file Form GSTR-10 after discharging partial liability?

You cannot file Form GSTR-10 without discharging full liabilities as declared in this Return.

13. I have filed Form GSTR-10. Can I revise it now?

Final Return/ Form GSTR-10 cannot be revised once filed.

14. What are the modes of signing Form GSTR-10?

You can file Form GSTR-10 using DSC or EVC.

 

Digital Signature Certificate (DSC)

Digital Signature Certificates (DSC) are the digital equivalent (that is electronic format) of physical or paper certificates. A digital certificate can be presented electronically to prove one’s identity, to access information or services on the Internet or to sign certain documents digitally. In India, DSC are issued by authorized Certifying Authorities.

The GST Portal accepts only PAN based Class II and III DSC.

 

Electronic Verification Code (EVC)

The Electronic Verification Code (EVC) authenticates the identity of the user at the GST Portal by generating an OTP. The OTP is sent to the mobile phone number of the registered mobile phone of Authorized Signatory filled in part A of the Registration Application.

15. Can I preview Form GSTR-10 before filing?

Yes, you can view/download the preview of Form GSTR-10 by clicking on ‘PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR 10’ before filing on the GST Portal.

16. I am not able to file Form GSTR-10. Why?

Taxpayer cannot see the link of Final return in path Services à Returns à Final Return in order to file Form GSTR-10, if the application for cancellation of registration has not been filed by the taxpayer or cancellation order has not been issued.

17. What happens after Form GSTR-10 is filed?

After Form GSTR-10 is filed:

ARN is generated on successful filing of the Form GSTR-10 Return.

An SMS and an email are sent to the applicant on his registered mobile and email id.

Electronic Cash/ Credit ledger and Electronic Liability Register Part-I will get updated on successful set-off of liabilities.

The return filed shall be saved in the Record Search and will be made available to tax official also.

18. Can adjustment of liabilities is allowed for the payment which were made at the time of filing of form REG-16 (Application for Cancellation of Registration)?

Yes, if any amount were paid at the time of filing application for cancellation of registration (Form REG-16), then such amount will be reduced from your liability to be payable at the time of filing of Final return (FORM GSTR-10) and will be displayed in Table 9 & 10 (Amount of tax payable and paid).

19. Can a Tax Official restore the Cancelled Registration Application for which Final Return has been already filled by the taxpayer?

Yes, the Tax Official can restore Registration of taxpayers whose Registration had been cancelled earlier and who had filed the Final return after cancellation, in compliance of an order passed by Appellate or Higher Authority to this effect.

20. Can i view details of calculation of late fee for Form GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B?

Yes, you can view details of late fee payable towards delayed filing of Form GSTR-1 and Form GSTR-3B by clicking Late Fee Payable hyperlink under 9 & 10 - Amount of tax payable and paid tile.  

20. Is there any late fee levied on filing of GSTR-10 return beyond the due date?

Yes, late fee is charged on filing of Form GSTR-10 beyond the due date.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[83] Filing Form GSTR-11 - Statement of Inward Supplies by persons having Unique Identification Number (UIN) - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/gstr11online

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Filing Form GSTR-11 - Statement of Inward Supplies by persons having Unique Identification Number (UIN)
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[84] Filing Form GSTR-11 - Statement of Inward Supplies by persons having Unique Identification Number (UIN) - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manua_GSTR-11.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Form GSTR-11
How can I file details in Form GSTR-11?

Form GSTR-11 is a form to be filed by every registered person, who has been issued a Unique Identity Number (UIN), to get tax credit/refunds under GST. Form GSTR-11 is a statement of inward supply of goods or services or both received by Unique Identity Number (UIN) holders, which is required to be filed by them on a quarterly basis.

 

To create, submit and file details in Form GSTR-11, perform following steps:

 

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-11 page

B. Download and View auto drafted details for Form GSTR-11(Excel)

C. Initiate Pre-Fill of Form GSTR-11

D. Enter/View/Edit/Delete details in various tiles

E. Preview Form GSTR-11

F. File Form GSTR-11 with DSC/ EVC

A. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-11 page

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard option. Alternatively, you can also click the Returns Dashboard link on the Dashboard.

 

 

2. The File Returns page is displayed. Select the Financial Year & Period for which you want to file the return from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button. The File Returns page is displayed. In the GSTR-11 tile, click the PREPARE ONLINE button, if you want to prepare the return by making entries on the GST Portal.

 

 

 

3. The GSTR-11 Quarterly Return page is displayed.

Note: You can refer to the highlighted box to view the steps to prepare Form GSTR-11.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

B. Download and View auto drafted details for Form GSTR-11(Excel)

You can download and view all auto-drafted details in your Form GSTR-11, from the filed Form GSTR-1/5/1A of your suppliers, in an excel file, if required, as per steps below.

4. Click the DOWNLOAD AUTO DRAFTED DETAILS FOR GSTR-11 (EXCEL) button to download and view all auto-drafted details in your Form GSTR-11, from the filed Form GSTR-1/5/1A of your suppliers.

 

Note: 

The excel download will show all records filed by the supplier in their Form GSTR-1/5/1A for the corresponding period of Form GSTR-11.

The column of upload status, upload date and reason for not uploading, in auto drafted excel will be updated only after auto-population is done by the UIN user (by clicking on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11 button). Auto-population of Form GSTR-11 can be initiated manually by UIN user, which is explained later. Click here to know more.

 

 

 

 

5. If number of records/lines are less than or equal to 500 records, then details are downloaded instantly in a file, else it might take up to 20 mins to download.

Note: The auto drafted excel cannot be imported in Offline tool.

 

 

 

Note: A sample screenshot has been provided below in case number of records/lines are more than 500 records. Multiple download links are enabled like “Click here to download Excel File -1”. User can click on each link to download the excel files. File will be downloaded in a zip folder.

 

 

6. The downloaded excel is displayed.

 

 

7. Go to individual worksheets to view auto-drafted details in your Form GSTR-11, from the filed Form GSTR-1/5/1A of your suppliers.

 

Worksheet details are as provided below:

 

3A-B2B: To view taxable inward supplies received from registered persons
3A-B2BA: To view amendment details to previously filed invoice by Supplier
3B-CDNR: To view Original Credit or Debit note details
3B-CDNRA: To view amendment details to previously filed Credit or Debit Notes by Supplier

 

Note: The column of upload status, upload date and reason for not uploading, in auto drafted excel will be updated only after auto-population is done by the UIN user (by clicking on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11 button). Auto-population of Form GSTR-11 can be initiated manually by UIN user, which is explained later. Click here to know more.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

C. Initiate Pre-Fill of Form GSTR-11

You can pre-fill Form GSTR-11 from Form GSTR-1/5/1A details, as filed by your suppliers, as per steps given below. Table 3A - Details of Invoices received and 3B - Details of Credit/Debit Notes received of your Form GSTR-11 are auto-drafted from filed Form GSTR-1/5/1A of your suppliers. The successfully auto-populated records in Form GSTR-11 can then be viewed/edited/deleted online on GST Portal in Form GSTR-11, in respective tables (refer next section).

Note: Tables of Form GSTR-11, as auto-drafted from filed Form GSTR-1/5/1A of your suppliers, are given below:

S. NO.	Tables of Form GSTR-11 auto-drafted from filed Form GSTR-1/5/1A	From Tables of Form GSTR-1/1A	From Tables of Form GSTR-5
1	Table 3A Details of Invoices received	Table 4A,4C, of Form GSTR-1/1A (B2B Invoices)	Table 5 of Form GSTR-5 (outward supplies made)
2	Table 3A Details of Invoices received	Table 9A of Form GSTR-1/1A (Amended B2B invoices)	Table 8A of Form GSTR-5 (Amended outward supplies)
3	Table 3B- Details of Credit/Debit Notes received	Table 9B of Form GSTR-1/1A (Credit/Debit Notes)	Table 8B of Form GSTR-5 (Credit/Debit Notes)
4	Table 3B- Details of Credit/Debit Notes received	Table 9C of Form GSTR-1/1A (Amended Credit/Debit Notes)	Table 8C of Form GSTR-5 (Amended Credit/Debit Notes)

 

8. Click on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11 to initiate pre-fill of Form GSTR-11, from Form GSTR-1/5/1A, as filed by your suppliers. The successfully auto-populated records in Form GSTR-11 can be viewed/edited/deleted online on GST Portal in Form GSTR-11 in respective tables.

 

Note:

Auto-population of data will happen as per data available in filed Form GSTR-1/5/1A of your suppliers. 
The auto drafted excel (downloaded after clicking DOWNLOAD AUTO DRAFTED DETAILS FOR GSTR-11 (EXCEL) button) of Form GSTR-11 will now contain details auto drafted from filed Form GSTR-1/5/1A.
Please note that you do not need to download and view auto-drafted details of filed Form GSTR-1/5/1A of your suppliers in an excel file, to initiate pre-filling of Form GSTR-11. 

9. A confirmation message is displayed that request for pre-filling Form GSTR-11 has been initiated. It may take up to 20 minutes.

 

 

 

10. Once prefill process is complete, auto-drafted details are populated in the individual tables.

Note: The successfully auto-populated records in Form GSTR-11 can be viewed/edited/deleted online on GST Portal in Form GSTR-11, in respective tables.

 

 

11. You can click on DOWNLOAD AUTO DRAFTED DETAILS FOR GSTR-11 (EXCEL) button tocheck upload status etc. (refer notes below). The downloaded excel is displayed.

 

 

Note:

Once UIN clicks on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11, the upload status of Form GSTR-1/5/1A data in Form GSTR-11, along with upload date column of the downloaded excel sheet will be populated and then the same will now be displayed after excel download. 
"Upload Date" column will display the date on which the record was uploaded in the excel by the GST Portal (both success/processed with error) for auto-population in Form GSTR-11, once UIN taxpayer clicks on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11 button.
Upload Status column will be ‘’Yes’, if record is auto populated successfully in Form GSTR-11 tables.
Upload Status column will be ‘’No’ if auto population fails and corresponding reason will be displayed in "reason for not uploading column".
In case any record is not auto populated in Form GSTR-11 tables, the reason will be captured in column ‘reason for not uploading’. Some of such reasons are provided below:
In case a document is already filed in Form GSTR-11 by UIN and later submitted by the Supplier in Form GSTR-1/5/1A, GST Portal will not overwrite such filed details (in Form GSTR 11). GST Portal will update the upload status as ‘No’ and will update the reason as ‘Document Filed’.
In case a document is already saved in Form GSTR-11 by UIN and later filed by the Supplier in Form GSTR-1/5/1A, GST Portal will not overwrite such saved details (in Form GSTR 11). GST Portal will update the upload status as ‘No’ and will update the reason as ‘Document Already Exists'.

Click here to go back to main menu

D. Enter/View/Edit/Delete details in various tiles

UIN holder can view/edit/delete auto-drafted details in respective tables of Form GSTR-11 (online) on GST Portal. To enter details of other records of the respective period, click on the tile names below to know more.

 

12. Table 3A - Details of Invoices received - To enter details of taxable inward supplies received from registered taxpayers.

13. Table 3B - Details of Credit/Debit Notes received - To enter details of credit/debit notes received from registered taxpayers.

12. Table 3A - Details of Invoices received

UIN holder can view/edit/delete details successfully auto-populated in Form GSTR-11, Online on GST Portal, in Table 3A - Details of Invoices received from Form GSTR-1/5/1A. To enter details of other taxable inward supplies received from registered taxpayers, perform following steps.

 

12.1. Click the 3A - Details of Invoices received tile to enter details of taxable inward supplies received from registered taxpayers. If there are any records added by the supplier, the table will be auto populated.

 

 

12.2. The B2B Invoices - Summary page is displayed. Click the ADD DETAILS button.

 

 

12.3. The Details of Invoices received- Add Invoice page is displayed. In the Supplier GSTIN field, enter the GSTIN of the supplier.

12.4. In the Invoice No., Invoice Date and Invoice Value fields, enter the Invoice number, date of the invoice and value of the total invoice. This field accepts only GSTIN of Normal taxpayer or Non Resident taxpayer.

Note:

Once the GSTIN of the supplier is entered, Supplier Name and Supply Type fields are auto-populated based on the GSTIN of the supplier.

The auto-populated POS is editable. Depending on selected POS, the supply type gets auto-populated.

The screen will expand downwards and more fields will appear to enter line item details of the invoice.

 

12.5 (a) In case of Inter-State transaction: In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the different from the state of the supplier, the transaction is an Inter-State transaction. Notice, field for Integrated Tax will appear. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively.

 

 

12.5 (b) In case of Intra-State transaction: In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the same state as that of the supplier, the transaction is an Intra-State transaction. Notice, fields for Central Tax and State/UT Tax will appear. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount. Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively.

 

 

12.6. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that Request accepted successfully. Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices (under Actions). Click the BACK button to go back to the Form GSTR-11 page.

 

 

12.7. You will be directed to the Form GSTR-11 landing page and the 3A - Details of Invoices received tile in Form GSTR-11 will reflect the number of invoices along with Total Invoice value, Total Taxable Value and Total Tax Amount.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

13. Table 3B - Details of Credit/Debit Notes received

UIN holder can view/edit/delete details successfully auto-populated in Form GSTR-11, Online on GST Portal, in Table 3B - Details of Credit/Debit Notes received from Form GSTR-1/5/1A. To enter details of other credit/debit notes received from registered taxpayers, perform following steps.

 

13.1. Click the 3B - Details of Credit/Debit Notes received tile to enter details of credit/debit notes received from registered taxpayers.

 

 

13.2. The Details of Credit/Debit Notes received - Summary page is displayed. Click the ADD DETAILS button.

 

 

13.3. The Details of Credit/Debit Notes received - Add Note page is displayed. In the Supplier GSTIN field, enter the GSTIN of the supplier.

13.4. In the Debit/Credit Note No., Debit/Credit Note Date, Note Value and Note Type fields, enter the number, date, value and type of the Debit/Credit Note.

Note:

Once the GSTIN of the supplier is entered, Supplier Name and Supply Type fields are auto-populated based on the GSTIN of the supplier.

The auto-populated POS is editable. Depending on selected POS, the supply type gets auto-populated.

The screen will expand downwards and more fields will appear to enter line item details of the invoice.

 

13.5 (a) In case of Inter-State transaction: In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the different from the state of the supplier, the transaction is an Inter-State transaction. Notice, field for Integrated Tax will appear. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively.

 

 

13.5 (b) In case of Intra-State transaction: In case the POS (place of supply) of the goods/ services is the same state as that of the supplier, the transaction is an Intra-State transaction. Notice, fields for Central Tax and State/UT Tax will appear. In the Taxable Value field against the rates, enter the taxable value of the goods or services. In the Cess field, enter the cess amount.

Note: The Amount of Tax fields are auto-populated based on the values entered in Taxable Value fields respectively.

 

 

13.6. You will be directed to the previous page and a message is displayed that Request accepted successfully. Here, you can also edit/delete the added invoices (under Actions). Click the BACK button to go back to the Form GSTR-11 page.

 

 

13.7. You will be directed to the Form GSTR-11 landing page and the 3B - Details of Credit/Debit Notes received tile in GSTR-11 will reflect the number of notes along with Total Note Value, Total Taxable Value and Total Tax Amount. The Total Tax Amount and taxable value are net off of debit and credit notes.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

E. Preview Form GSTR-11

To download the draft Summary page of Form GSTR-11 for your review, perform following steps:

 

14. Once you have entered details, click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-11 (PDF) button. This button will download the draft Summary page of Form GSTR-11 for your review. It is recommended that you download this Summary page and review the summary of entries made in different sections before submitting Form GSTR-11.

 

 

15. The PDF file is generated with watermark of draft as the details are yet to be submitted.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

F. File Form GSTR-11 with DSC/ EVC

16. Select the Declaration checkbox. Click the FILE RETURN button.

 

 

17. Click the YES button.

 

 

18. The Returns Filing for GSTR11 page is displayed. Select the Declaration checkbox. In the Authorised Signatory drop-down list, select the authorized signatory. This will enable the two buttons - FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC. Click the FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button to file Form GSTR-11.

 

 

18.1. FILE WITH DSC: Click the PROCEED button. Select the certificate and click the SIGN button.

 

18.2. FILE WITH EVC: Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VERIFY button.

 

 

19. The success message is displayed and ARN is displayed. Status of Form GSTR-11 return changes to "Filed".

Note: After Form GSTR-11 is filed:

ARN will be generated on successful filing of the Form.
An SMS and email will be sent to the mobile number of authorized signatory of the UIN Holder on the successful submission of Form.
A link would be made available to generate GST RFD-10 for claiming refund on the Returns Filing for GSTR 11 page. You can click GENERATE RFD-10 button to generate Form GST RFD-10 application form of the same quarter for which Form GSTR-11 is filed. Click here to know more about how to GENERATE RFD-10.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[85] Filing Form GSTR-11 - Statement of Inward Supplies by persons having Unique Identification Number (UIN) - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_GSTR-11.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > GSTR-11
FAQs > About Form GSTR-11  
1. What is Form GSTR-11 and who needs to file Form GSTR-11?

Form GSTR-11 is a form to be filed by every registered person, who has been issued a Unique Identity Number (UIN), to get tax credit/refunds under GST. Form GSTR-11 is a statement of inward supply of goods or services or both received by Unique Identity Number (UIN) holders, which is required to be filed by them on a quarterly basis.

2. By when do I need to file Form GSTR-11?

Form GSTR-11 is to be filed on Quarterly basis. However, the form is not mandatory to be filed for such period in which there are no inward supplies received by such UIN holder. However, before claiming refund in Form GST RFD-10, filing of Form GSTR-11 is necessary for the relevant quarter. There is no due date for Filing of Form GSTR-11. UIN holder can file Form GSTR-11 any time after end of the relevant Quarter.

3. Is it mandatory to file nil Form GSTR-11, in case there are no inward supplies received by UIN?

It is not mandatory to file nil Form GSTR-11, in case there are no inward supplies received by UIN during the quarter.

Filing Details in Form GSTR-11
4. What are the pre-conditions for filing Form GSTR-11?

Pre-conditions for filing of Form GSTR-11 are:

1. The UIN holders must have a valid/ active UIN, username and password to login into the GST Portal.

2. The UIN Holders must also have valid mobile number details updated for filing through EVC or non-expired/ non-revoked digital signature (DSC) where DSC is prescribed as mandatory for signature.

 

Please note that signing with DSC would not be applicable for UIN who have not provided PAN details.

5. From where can I file Form GSTR-11?

Form GSTR-11 can be accessed on the GST Portal, post login in the Returns Dashboard by the UIN holder.

The path is Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard.

6. What are the steps of filing Form GSTR-11?

Listed below are steps to file Form GSTR-11:

1. Login and Navigate to Form GSTR-11 page by navigating to Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard > Select the Financial Year & Period > Click the SEARCH > PREPARE ONLINE. 

2. Download and View auto drafted details of filed Form GSTR-1/5 of your suppliers in an excel file, if required by clicking DOWNLOAD AUTO DRAFTED DETAILS FOR GSTR-11 (EXCEL) button.

3. You can click on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11 button to initiate pre-fill of Form GSTR-11 from Form GSTR-1/5, as filed by your suppliers. 

4. UIN holder can also view/edit/delete these auto-drafted details successfully auto-populated in Form GSTR-11 online on GST Portal in respective tables.

5. Once you have entered details, click the PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-11 (PDF) button to download the draft Summary page of Form GSTR-11 for your review.

6. Select the Declaration checkbox. In the Authorised Signatory drop-down list, select the authorized signatory. This will enable the two buttons - FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC. Click the FILE WITH DSC or FILE WITH EVC button to file Form GSTR-11.

7. Is there any Offline Tool for filing Form GSTR-11?

Yes, there is an offline tool for filing Form GSTR-11. Click here to know more about Form GSTR-11 Offline Tool.

Auto-Drafted Details in Form GSTR-11
8. How can I download auto-drafted details from Form GSTR-1/5 to Form GSTR-11?

Navigate to Services > Returns > Returns Dashboard > Select the Financial Year & Period > DOWNLOAD AUTO DRAFTED DETAILS FOR GSTR-11 (EXCEL) button to download auto-drafted details from Form GSTR-1/5 to Form GSTR-11 in an excel format.

 

Note: 

The excel download will show all records filed by the supplier in their Form GSTR-1/5 for the corresponding period of Form GSTR-11.

The column of upload status, upload date and reason for not uploading, in auto drafted excel will be updated only after auto-population is done by the UIN user (by clicking on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11 button). 

Once UIN clicks on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11, the upload status of Form GSTR-1/5 data in Form GSTR-11, along with upload date column of the downloaded excel sheet will be populated and then the same will be displayed in the downloaded excel.

9. What details are available in the downloaded excel?

Below worksheets are available in the downloaded excel for viewing auto-drafted details from Form GSTR-1/5 of the Suppliers:

3A-B2B: To view taxable inward supplies received from registered persons
3A-B2BA: To view amendment details to previously filed invoice by Supplier
3B-CDNR: To view Original Credit or Debit note details
3B-CDNRA: To view amendment details to previously filed Credit or Debit Notes by Supplier
10. Which tables are auto-drafted from Form GSTR-1/5 to Form GSTR-11?

Table 3A - Details of Invoices received and 3B - Details of Credit/Debit Notes received are auto-drafted from filed Form GSTR-1/5 to Form GSTR-11.

 

S. NO.	Tables of Form GSTR-11 auto-drafted from filed Form GSTR-1/5	From Tables of Form GSTR-1	From Tables of Form GSTR-5
1	Table 3A Details of Invoices received	Table 4A,4C, of Form GSTR-1 (B2B Invoices)	Table 5 of Form GSTR-5 (outward supplies made)
2	Table 3A Details of Invoices received	Table 9A of Form GSTR-1 (Amended B2B invoices)	Table 8A of Form GSTR-5 (Amended outward supplies)
3	Table 3B- Details of Credit/Debit Notes received	Table 9B of Form GSTR-1 (Credit/Debit Notes)	Table 8B of Form GSTR-5 (Credit/Debit Notes)
4	Table 3B- Details of Credit/Debit Notes received	Table 9C of Form GSTR-1 (Amended Credit/Debit Notes)	Table 8C of Form GSTR-5 (Amended Credit/Debit Notes)
11. Can I edit/delete the auto-populated details in Form GSTR-11?

Yes, you can edit/delete auto-populated data from filed Form GSTR-1 and GSTR-5 in Form GSTR-11.

Initiating Pre-fill of Form GSTR-11
12. From where I can view the upload status of Form GSTR-1/5 to Form GSTR-11?

Once UIN holder clicks on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11, the process of auto population will be initiated. Once the process is complete, the upload status and upload date column will be updated. UIN holder can click the DOWNLOAD AUTO DRAFTED DETAILS FOR GSTR-11 (EXCEL) button to download and view all auto-drafted details of filed Form GSTR-1/5 of the Suppliers.

Upload Status column will be ‘’Yes’ if record is auto populated successfully in Form GSTR-11 tables and No if auto population fails, corresponding reason will be displayed in reason for not uploading column. Upload Date column will display the date on which the record was uploaded (both success/processed with error).

13. Is it necessary and mandatory to manually trigger the auto-population of details from Form GSTR-1/5 to Form GSTR-11?

In order to auto-populate the auto drafted details from filed Form GSTR-1/5 of the suppliers to Form GSTR-11 tables, UIN user needs to manually trigger the auto population process by clicking on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11 button. However, it is not mandatory for UIN to auto draft details from filed Form GSTR-1/5 to Form GSTR-11 tables and they can choose to enter the details as per their own records.

 

Note:

Once UIN clicks on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11, the upload status of Form GSTR-1/5 data in Form GSTR-11, along with upload date column of the downloaded excel sheet will be populated and then the same will be displayed in the downloaded excel.

"Upload Date" column will display the date on which the record was uploaded by the GST Portal (both success/processed with error) for auto-population in Form GSTR-11, once UIN taxpayer clicks on INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11 button.

Upload Status column will be ‘’Yes’ if record is auto populated successfully in Form GSTR-11 tables.

Upload Status column will be ‘’No’ if auto population fails and corresponding reason will be displayed in "reason for not uploading column".

14. What are the common reasons for data not getting auto-populated in Form GSTR-11 from Form GSTR-1/5 ?

In case any record is not auto populated in Form GSTR-11 tables, the reason will be captured in column ‘reason for not uploading’. Some of these reasons are provided below:

In case a document is already filed in Form GSTR-11 by UIN and later submitted by the Supplier in Form GSTR-1/5; GST Portal will not overwrite such filed details (in Form GSTR-11). GST Portal will update the upload status as ‘No’ and will update the reason as ‘Document Filed’.
In case a document is already saved in Form GSTR-11 by UIN and later filed by the Supplier in Form GSTR-1/5; GST Portal will not overwrite such saved details (in Form GSTR-11). GST Portal will update the upload status as ‘No’ and will update the reason as ‘Document Already Exists'.
Entering Details in Form GSTR-11
15. What are the ways in which details can be provided in tables of Form GSTR-11?

Details can be provided by two ways in tables of Form GSTR-11:

Pre-filling data in Form GSTR-11 tables from filed Form GSTR-1/5 of the suppliers by clicking INITIATE PRE-FILL OF GSTR-11, which can be edited/deleted/modified thereafter
Entering details in tables of Form GSTR-11 one-by-one (through online entry mode)
15. In which tables of Form GSTR-11, the details are required to be provided?

Details are required to be provided in the following tables of Form GSTR-11:

Table 3A - Details of Invoices received - To enter details of other taxable inward supplies received from registered taxpayers.
Table 3B - Details of Credit/Debit Notes received - To enter details of other credit/debit notes received from registered taxpayers.
Preview & Filing Form GSTR-11
16. Can I preview Form GSTR-11 before filing?

Yes, you can preview Form GSTR-11 before filing on the GST Portal by clicking on ‘PREVIEW DRAFT GSTR-11 (PDF)' button.

17. What are the modes of signing Form GSTR-11?

You can file Form GSTR-11 using DSC or EVC.

Post Filing of Form GSTR-11
18. What happens after Form GSTR-11 is filed?

After Form GSTR-11 is filed:

ARN will be generated on successful filing of the Form.
An SMS and email will be sent to the mobile number of authorized signatory of the UIN Holder on successful submission of the Form.
A link would be made available to generate GST RFD-10 for claiming refund on the Returns Filing for GSTR 11 page.
19. Can I revise Form GSTR-11 return after filing?

No, you cannot revise Form GSTR-11 return after filing.

Ledgers Maintained for Form GSTR-11 
20. Are there any ledgers maintained for UIN holders on GST Portal?

Yes, Electronic Liability Register and Electronic Cash Ledger are maintained for UIN holders on GST Portal. Navigate to Services > Ledgers option to view Electronic Liability Register and Electronic Cash Ledger details.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[86] Filing Form GST SRM-I (Pan Masala/Tobacco Manufacturer) - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_GST_SRM_FORM.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Form GST SRM - I
How can I generate details for Registration and Disposal of Machines in the Form GST SRM-I?

To create, submit and file details of registration and disposal of the machines in Form GST SRM -I, perform following steps:

 

A. Login and Navigate to GST SRM-I

B. Enter Details in various tiles

C. Initiate Filing for  form GST SRM-I

D. Download Filed form GST SRM-I

 

A. Login and Navigate to GST SRM-I page

For filing GST SRM -I follow these steps:

 

1. Access the https://www.gst.gov.in/ URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Navigate to  Services > Returns > SRM Forms (Pan Masala/Tobacco) option.

 

 

4. When taxpayer hover the curser over the SRM Forms (Pan Masala/Tobacco)  hyperlink following message will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

5. On clicking of SRM Forms (Pan Masala/Tobacco)  hyperlink, GST SRM page will be displayed on the screen. Taxpayer can view two information message on the screen. Select financial year from the Financial Year drop-down list and click on SEARCH button.

 

 

6. FORM GST SRM-1 table will be displayed on the screen, click on PREPARE ONLINE tab to proceed further.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

B. Enter Details in various tiles

7. GST SRM-I page will be displayed on the screen. There are tiles representing tables to enter relevant details. Click on the tile names to know and enter related details:

7.1.  Table  6 – Details of the machines 

7.2. Table 6A – Amendment to the details of the machines

7.3. Table 7 - Details of the intimation of the machines furnished to other departments

7.4. Table 8 – Disposal of the packing machines

7.5. Table 9 - Product details

7.6. Table 10 - Details of the Documents uploaded

 

 

Note:  Number of processed records will be displayed in green color and number of pending records will be displayed in black color.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

7.1 Table 6- Details of Machines

7.1.1 Click the  6 - Details of Machines tile, to add record of existing or new machines. Table 6 has two parts as Part A for filling the details of existing machines and Part B for filling the details of newly added machines which are purchased/acquired after the implementation of these forms (SRM-I) and not reported in Part-A of table 6.

 

 

7.1.2  On clicking of 6 - Details of Machines tile Part A- Existing machines will be opened. Here  taxpayer can view the details of already added machines, if any. Taxpayer can add the details of machine by clicking the ADD RECORD tab. Taxpayer can click on BACK button to go to GST SRM-I page.

 

7.1.3  6 - Part A- Existing Machines- Add page will be displayed on the screen.

a. Enter details in Make, if available and Model no., if available fields and these are non-mandatory fields.

b. Enter Name of manufacturer, Machine no., Date of purchase, Electricity consumption capacity of the machine per hour (KWH) in the respective fields.

c. Select address of place where machine is installed from the Address of the place of installation drop-down list and status of working from the Working status drop-down list. 

d. Registration no. of the machine field will be non-editable.

e. Enter Track details of the machine and taxpayer can add more row by clicking on +Add tab under Action column.

f. Click on SAVE button to save the details or click on BACK button to go to previous page.

 

 

7.1.4  A message of successful submission of details will be displayed on the screen. Processed records details will be displayed on the screen. Taxpayer can search the details by entering the keywords in Search field.

 

 

Taxpayer can scroll right the table to view more details. Tax payer can click on edit icon under ACTION column to edit the details or can click on delete icon under ACTION column to delete the row.

 

 

 

7.1.5  Taxpayer can click on Part B- Newly added machines tab to view the details that are newly added by taxpayer.

 

 

Note: Taxpayer can add details of machines in Part B- Newly added machine by following similar steps.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

7.2. Table 6A- Amendment to the details of the machine 

Taxpayer can amend the details of previously added machine under table 6A- Amendment to the details of the machine . To amend detail under table 6A perform following steps:

7.2.1. Click on 6A- Amendment to the details of the machine tile. 

 

 

7.2.2.  6A- Amendment to the details of the machine form will be displayed on the screen. If there are no previous amended record, then following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

7.2.3.  Select financial year from the Financial Year drop-down list. In Registration no. of the machine field GSTIN of taxpayer will auto-populated and non-editable, enter next 3 digits of registration number of machine next to GSTIN number in same field. Click on AMEND RECORDS tab to proceed further.

 

 

7.2.4.  6A- Amendment to the details of the machine form will be displayed on the screen.

a. Registration no. of the machine and Machine no. fields will be auto-populated and non editable. 

b. Make, Model no., Date of purchase, Address of the place of installation, Electricity consumption capacity of the machine per hour( KWH), Working status, Name of manufacturer, Track details of the machine fields will be auto populated and will be editable.

c. Enter Date of change in any parameter listed in respective field. After editing all required fields click on SAVE button to proceed further.

d. Click on BACK button to go back. Taxpayer can add more details under Track details of the machine head by clicking on +Add tab under Action column.

 

 

Note: If taxpayer has not amended any of the fields and clicks on SAVE button following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

7.2.5  Processed record details page will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

7.3. Table 7-  Details of the intimation of the machines furnished to other departments 

To provide the details of machines to other departments, perform following steps:

7.3.1. Click on 7 - Details of the intimation of the machines furnished to other departments tile on the screen.

 

 

Note: In case, there are no records in above 2 parts, then following message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

7.3.2. 7 - Details of the intimation of the machines furnished to other departments page will be displayed on the screen. Taxpayer can search the earlier saved details by entering the keywords in Search field. Taxpayer can delete the details by clicking on the delete icon under Action column. Click on BACK button to go to previous page or can click on ADD RECORD tab to add details of the machines.

 

 

7.3.3. On clicking of ADD RECORD tab following page will be displayed on the screen. Select Date of intimation from the calendar, enter Name of Govt. department/any other agency or organization and Details of declaration in respective field. Click on +Add button to add more details. Click on BACK button to go back to previous page or click on SAVE button to save the details.

 

 

7.3.4. A message of successful addition of details will be displayed on the screen and status will be updated under Processing Status column.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

7.4. Table 8 – Disposal of the packing machines

 

Taxpayer can add details of the packing machines that are to be disposed off under table  8 – Disposal of the packing machines. To add the details perform following steps:

 

7.4.1. Click on 8 – Disposal of the packing machines tile.

 

 

7.4.2. If previously there is no record saved by taxpayer in table 8 – Disposal of the packing machines, then following message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note: Already disposed machines will not be available to be disposed off again.

7.4.3.  Select financial year from the Financial Year drop-down list. In Registration no. of the machine field GSTIN of taxpayer will be auto populated, enter next 3 digits of Registration number of the machine that is to be disposed off. Click on DISPOSED OF MACHINE tab to proceed further or click on BACK button to go back to previous page.

 

Note: If the next 3 digits of registration number is not entered correctly, following message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

7.4.4.  On clicking on DISPOSED OF MACHINE tab, 8 – Disposal of the packing machines form will be displayed on the screen. 

a. Registration no. of the machine and Machine no., Make, Model no., Date of purchase, Address of the place of installation, Name of manufacturer, Track details of the machine fields will be auto-populated and will be non editable.

b. Enter Date of disposal in respective field.

c. Select Reason of disposal (Supplied/Condemned/Wrong machine no.) from the respective drop -down list.

 

 

d. Click on SAVE tab to save the details or click on BACK button to go to previous page.

 

 

7.4.5. On clicking of SAVE button details of saved record will be displayed on the screen in table.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

7.5. Table 9- Product details 

 

Taxpayer can enter the details related to output product by performing following steps:

 

7.5.1 Click on the 9- Product details tile.

 

 

 

If no product detail has been added There are no records to be displayed will be displayed on the screen. Click on BACK button to go back to the page or click on ADD RECORD tab to add details.

 

 

7.5.2  9- Product details page will be displayed on the screen.

a. Enter Brand name, Packaging type and Quantity in grams in each package in respective fields.

b. Select HSN code from  HSN dropdown  list and Description of the product field will auto populate.

c. However  taxpayer can edit Description of the product field.

d. Click on SAVE button to save the details or click on BACK button to go back.

 

 

Note: Quantity in grams in each package field take integer value up to three decimals.

 

 

7.5.3. A message of successful addition of details will be displayed on the screen. Taxpayer can edit the detail by clicking on Edit icon or can delete the detail by clicking on Delete icon under ACTION column.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

7.6. Table 10 - Details of the Documents uploaded

 

To upload relevant documents under table 10 - Details of the Documents uploaded  perform following steps: 

 

7.6.1.  Click on 10 - Details of the Documents uploaded tile.

 

 

7.6.2. Click on Choose File tab against Certificate of Chartered Engineer and Information given to other Department head to add related documents. Taxpayer can add any other related document by clicking on Choose File button against  Other Documents, If any head. After adding the documents click on SAVE button to add the documents or click on BACK button to go to previous page.

 

 

Note: If any required document is not added, following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

7.6.3. A message of successful submission of request will be displayed on the screen. Status of document addition will be displayed under Status head.

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

C. Initiate Filing for GST SRM-I

 

After entering the details in Table 6, 7, 9 and 10, taxpayer can intiate filing of GST SRM-I. To file GST SRM-I perform following steps:

 

8. Click on GENERATE SUMMARY tab to proceed further. Taxpayer can reset all the details added by him/her (in all tables) by clicking on RESET tab.

 

 

Note: If any record is pending under any table following message will be displayed on the screen on clicking of GENERATE SUMMARY tab.

 

 

9. On successful generation of summary following message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note: When taxpayer has entered the record in table 6 but not attached the attachment in table 10 and click on refresh icon after clicking on GENERATE SUMMARY button following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

10. Status will be updated to Ready to File under Status head Taxpayer can download the summary in PDF format by clicking on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (PDF) tab or in excel format by clicking on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (EXCEL) tab.

 

 

11. Following PDF will be downloaded on system on clicking of DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (PDF) tab.

 

Note: On clicking of DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (EXCEL) tab following excel file will be downloaded. Taxpayer can view the details of each table by clicking on the table name.

 

 

12. Click on FILE tab to file the GST SRM-I form.

 

 

13. Verification page will be displayed on the screen. Click on Verification checkbox, select authorised signatory from the Authorised Signatory drop-down list. Click on BACK button to go back or click on FILE WITH EVC or FILE WITH DSC tab to proceed further.

 

 

14. On clicking on FILE WITH EVC an OTP will be received on mobile and on registered email ID of taxpayer. Enter OTP in Enter One Time Password(OTP) field and click on Verify button.

 

 

15. A message of successful filing of form will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

PDF of filed Form GST SRM-1 is as below.

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

 

D. Download filed form GST SRM-I 

For downloading filed GST SRM -I follow these steps:

 

1. Access the https://www.gst.gov.in/ URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Navigate to  Services > Returns > View Filed Returns option.

 

 

4. View Filed Returns page will be displayed on the screen. Select financial year, return filing period and month from Financial Year, Return Filing Period and Month drop-down list respectively. Select SRM-I from Return Type drop-down list.

 

 

5. Click on SEARCH button after selecting all details. A table will be displayed on the screen. Click on View hyperlink under View/Download column.

 

 

6. GST SRM-I page will be displayed on the screen. Click on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (PDF) button to download summary of GST SRM-I form in PDF format or click on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (EXCEL) button to download summary of GST SRM-I form in excel format.

 

 

 

7. On clicking of  DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (PDF) button following PDF of filed form GST SRM-I will be downloaded in the system.

 

 

Note 1: Registration number of machine will be available in Final PDF of filed GST SRM form-1, for each machine which registered in table 6 of SRM-I.

 

Note 2: On clicking of DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (EXCEL) tab following excel file will be downloaded. Taxpayer can view the details of each table by clicking on the table name.  

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[87] Filing Form GST SRM-I (Pan Masala/Tobacco Manufacturer) - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_GST_SRM_FORM.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Form GST SRM - I
1. Who are required to file Form GST SRM-I? 

All manufacturers of pan masala and tobacco products mentioned in the notification issued by Government are required to file Form GST SRM-I.

2. Can I file Form GST SRM-I multiple times?

Yes, but taxpayer can file only one form in a day.

3. How can I amend the details of the machine that I have added in table 6?

Taxpayer can amend the machine details that have already been reported in table 6 of Form GST SRM-I, by navigating to TABLE 6A – AMENDMENT TO THE DETAILS OF THE MACHINES.
To amend the packing machine details –taxpayer should provide registration number of machine and click on ‘Amend Record’ button to search the machine detail in TABLE 6A – AMENDMENT TO THE DETAILS OF THE MACHINES.
Taxpayer can amend the  added details after one day of filing Form GST SRM-I and there is no time limit for making amendments.

4. How can I generate registration number of machine?

This is auto-generated by system after filing of SRM I. You can view the same by navigating to ‘View filed return’  which has ‘Download’ option. Structure of the machine registration number will be GSTIN followed by three digits in sequence. 
It means that the maximum number of machines which can be registered can be up to 999.
The disposed of machine’s unique registration no. cannot be assigned to a newly registered machine.

5. Can we Amend/Dispose of the details filed in Part-A and  Part B of table 6 of Form GST SRM-1?

After filing of  SRM-1, system will generate the registration number of the machine. Taxpayer can use this number for making any amendments/disposal  through  table 6A or table 8, as the case may be.

 

FAQs > Details of the machines (SRM)
1. What does Details of the machines tile provide?

Details of the machines tile will provide the updated details of SRM-I with consolidated summary of each registered number of machines as on date.

2. What is the Precondition to view the Details of the machines tile?

At least one filling of SRM-I will be required to view the document details in tile Details of the machines updated based on SRM-I filed up to date.
Taxpayer will be able to view the updated document details in tile “Details of the machines” till the effective date of cancellation.

3. Can taxpayer edit the details through Details of machines tile?

No, taxpayer can only view and download the details of machines reported in SRM-I.

4. Whether Details of the machines tile will display the summary of machines up to the date of generation if taxpayer selects older financial year?

If taxpayer selects any older financial year, then the summary of machines will contain up to 31st March of selected financial year i.e. financial year specific. 
If the taxpayer selects the current financial year, the summary of machines will be up to date of generation i.e. date specific.

5. Which taxpayers can view Details of the machines tile?

All manufacturers of pan masala and tobacco products mentioned in the notification issued by Government can view Details of the machines tile.

6. Can I as a taxpayer download and keep a copy of Details of the machines for future reference?

Yes, Details of the machines will be available for viewing and/or downloading (in Excel and/or PDF formats).

7. Can I download Amendments and disposed machine details in Details of the machines tile?

Yes, taxpayer can download available records of Amendments and disposed machine in Excel format. For downloading the details, click on registration number of the machine hyperlink available in Details of the machines table then click the download icon.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[88] Filing Form GST SRM-II (Pan Masala/Tobacco Manufacturer) - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_GST_SRM_FORM_II.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Form GST SRM - II
I am a taxpayer. How can I create, submit and file Form GST SRM-II?

To create, submit and file details of registration and disposal of the machines in Form GST SRM -I, perform following steps:

A. Login and Navigate to GST SRM-II

B. Enter Details in various tiles.

C. Initiate Filing for form GST SRM-II

D. Download Filed form GST SRM-II

A. Login and navigate to Form GST SRM-II For filing GST SRM -II

1. Access the https://www.gst.gov.in/ URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Navigate to Services > Returns > SRM Forms (Pan Masala/Tobacco) option.

 

 

4. When taxpayer hovers the curser over the SRM Forms (Pan Masala/Tobacco) hyperlink following message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

5. On clicking of SRM Forms (Pan Masala/Tobacco) hyperlink, GST SRM page will be displayed on the screen. Taxpayer can view information messages on the screen. Select financial year and period from the Financial Year and Period dropdown list and click on SEARCH button.

Note: For SRM II Period is mandatory, whereas for SRM I Period is kept optional.

 

 

6. FORM GST SRM-I and FORM GST SRM-II tile will be displayed on the screen, click on PREPARE ONLINE tab in SRM-II tile to proceed further.

 

B. Enter Details in various tiles

7. GST SRM-II page will be displayed on the screen. There are tiles representing tables to enter relevant details. Click on the tile names to know and enter related details:

 

7.1. Table 8 – Details of inputs

7.2. Table 9 - Details of production

7.3. Table 10 – Power Consumption

7.4 Table 11 – Details of grid integrated solar power

 

Note: You can click the Help button to view help related to this page.

 

 

Note: Number of processed records will be displayed in green color and number of pending records will be displayed in black color.

 

7.1 Table 8- Details of inputs

7.1.1 Click the 8 - Details of inputs tile, to add details of inputs.

 

 

7.1.2 8 - Details of inputs page will be displayed. Taxpayer can add the details of inputs by clicking the ADD RECORD tab. Taxpayer can click on BACK button to go to GST SRM-II page.

 

 

Note: In case, there are no records, then following message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

7.1.3. 8 – Details of inputs page will be displayed on the screen.

 

a. Enter HSN details.

 

 

Note:

i: If only one digit of HSN is entered, then following error message will be displayed.

 

 

ii: HSN of more than or equal to 2 digits will be allowed.

 

 

 

b. Description field is auto populated based on HSN number entered and it will be user editable.

 

 

c. Information message will be displayed if previous month is not filed or filed without data in table 8 or filed as nil or filed with data in table 8 with all HSNs having closing balance as zero. To move forward, enter details in Unit, Opening balance, Quantity procured, Quantity consumed, and Value of the quantity procured (Rs.) in the respective fields.

Note: Value of the quantity procured (Rs.) field take the integer value up to two decimals and all the other input fields get Integer value up to three decimals.

 

 

 

Note a: You can click on Add Record button to add more records.

 

 

Note b: Click on the Click here hyperlink to download the excel file to view the closing balance of the items reported in previous month having non-zero closing balance.

 

 

Following excel sheet will be displayed on the screen on clicking of Click here hyperlink.

 

 

d. Closing balance (Op_Pro-Con) field is auto populated.

Note: Closing balance is calculated as Opening balance + Quantity Procured – Quantity consumed, and this is calculated by system.

 

 

b: Closing balance can’t be negative. If you try to save the details with negative Closing balance than following error message will be displayed

 

 

f. Click on SAVE button to save the details or click on BACK button to go to previous page.

 

 

Note 1: If taxpayer enters zero values in all entry fields following error message will be displayed on the screen on clicking of Save button.

 

 

Note 2:  Taxpayer can save the data by entering different unit /UQC for the same HSN.If he/she tries to Save data with same unit /UQC for the same HSN following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

7.1.4 A message of successful submission of details will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

7.1.5 Processed records details will be displayed on the screen. Taxpayer can search the details by entering the keywords in Search field.

 

 

7.1.6 Taxpayer can scroll right the table to view more details. Taxpayer can click on edit icon under ACTION column to edit the details or can click on delete icon under ACTION column to delete the row.

 

 

7.2. Table 9- Details of production

To add details of production under table-9, perform following steps:

7.2.1. Click on 9- Details of production tile on the screen.

 

 

7.2.2.  9- Details of production form will be displayed on the screen. If there are no previous record, then following message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

7.2.3. Click on Add Record to proceed further.

 

 

 

7.2.4 Select the details from their respective dropdown menu as provided in SRM-I Form.

 

 

7.2.5

a. Add the details in Number of the packages packed and MRP per package packed (Rs.).

b. Description of the product will be auto populated based on HSN selected and it will be editable.

c. Total value (in MRP) of the packages packed by machine (Rs.) is calculated as (Number of packages packed + MRP per package packed (Rs.)) and is generated by system.

 

 

7.2.6 Click on BACK button to go back to previous page or click on SAVE button to save the details.

 

 

7.2.7 Success message will be displayed. 

 

 

7.2.8 Processed record details page will be displayed on the screen. Taxpayer can search the details by entering the keywords in Search field.

 

 

7.2.9 Taxpayer can scroll right the table to view more details. Taxpayer can click on edit icon under ACTION column to edit the details or can click on delete icon under ACTION column to delete the row.

 

 

7.3. Table 10- Details Power consumption

To provide the details of Power consumption, perform following steps:

7.3.1. Click on 10 - Power consumption on the screen.

 

 

7.3.2.  10 – Power consumption page will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

7.3.3 Enter the Meter/DG set no., Initial meter reading on first day of the month, Final meter reading on last day of the month and based on the read, will be calculated.

Note: All the input fields take integer value up to three decimals.

 

 

7.3.4 On entering details ADD button will be displayed. Click on ADD button to proceed.

 

 

7.3.5 On clicking ADD button, new row will be displayed to add more records. Taxpayer can delete the details by clicking on delete icon.

 

 

7.3.6 Enter details in all A, B, C and D fields, same steps will be followed as explained above.

 

 

7.3.7 Click on Save button to proceed or BACK button to go to previous page.

 

 

 

7.3.8 Success message will be displayed.

 

 

7.3.9. Table 10 – Power consumption will be displayed, and processing status will be updated under Processing Status column. Taxpayer can click on delete icon under ACTION column to delete the row.

 

 

 

7.4. Table 11- Details of grid integrated solar Power 

To provide the details of grid integrated solar power, perform following steps:

 

7.4.1. Click on 11 - Details of grid integrated solar power on the screen.

 

 

7.4.2.  11 - Details of grid integrated solar power page will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

7.4.3 Enter the Meter no., Initial meter reading on first day of the month, Final meter reading on last day of the month, based on the read Generation/ Export/ Import/ Consumption (KWH) (4-3) will be calculated. 

Note: All the input fields take integer value up to three decimals.

 

 

7.4.4 On entering details ADD button will be displayed. Click on ADD button to proceed.

 

 

7.4.5 On clicking ADD button, new row will be displayed to add more records. Taxpayer can delete the details by clicking on delete icon.

 

 

7.4.6 Enter details in all A, B, and C fields, same steps will be followed as explained above. D fields will be generated by system as A+B-C

 

 

7.4.7 Click on Save button to proceed or BACK button to go to previous page. 

 

 

7.4.8 Success message will be displayed.

 

 

7.4.9. Table 11 - Details of grid integrated solar power will be displayed, and processing status will be updated under Processing Status column. Taxpayer can click on delete icon under ACTION column to delete the row.

 

 

C. Initiate Filing for GST SRM-II

After entering the details in the relevant tables, taxpayer can initiate filing of GST SRM-II.

 

To file GST SRM-II, perform following steps:

 

8. Click on GENERATE SUMMARY tab to proceed further. Taxpayer can reset all the details added by him/her (in all tables) by clicking on RESET tab.

 

 

9. On successful generation of summary, following message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note: If any record is in pending state and Taxpayer try to generate summary then error message will be displayed.

 

 

10. Status will be updated to Ready to File under Status head. Taxpayer can download the summary in PDF format by clicking on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (PDF) tab or in excel format by clicking on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (EXCEL) tab.

 

 

11. Following PDF will be downloaded on system on clicking of DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (PDF) tab.

 

 

Note: On clicking of DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (EXCEL) tab following excel file will be downloaded. Taxpayer can view the details of each table by clicking on the table name.

 

 

12. Click on PROCEED TO FILE button to file the GST SRM-II forms.

 

 

13. Verification page will be displayed on the screen. Click on Verification checkbox, select authorized signatory from the Authorized Signatory dropdown list. Click on BACK button to go back or click on FILE WITH EVC or FILE WITH DSC tab to proceed further.

 

 

 

14. On clicking the FILE WITH EVC an OTP will be received on mobile and on registered email ID of taxpayer. Enter OTP in Enter One Time Password (OTP) field and click on Verify button.

 

 

15. A message of successful filing of form will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

D. Dowload Filed Form GST SRM II

16. Form GST SRM-II page will be displayed, click on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY(PDF) to download summary of filed Form GST SRM-II in PDF format or click on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY(EXCEL) to download summary of filed Form GST SRM-II in excel format.

 

 

17. PDF of filed Form GST SRM-II is as below.

 

 

Note: On clicking of DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (EXCEL) tab following excel file will be downloaded. Taxpayer can view the details of each table by clicking on the table name.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[89] Filing Form GST SRM-II (Pan Masala/Tobacco Manufacturer) - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_GST_SRM_FORM_II.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Form GST SRM - II
1. What is Form GST SRM-II? Who is required to file Form GST SRM-II?

Form SRM-II is a monthly statement of input used and output procured and consumed by the manufacturer of pan masala and tobacco. All manufacturers of pan masala and tobacco products mentioned in the notification issued by Government are required to file Form GST SRM-II.

2. Where can I file Form SRM-II?

Form SRM-II can be filed from the returns section of the GST Portal. You can access it by navigating to Services > Returns > SRM Forms (Pan Masala/Tobacco). Select the Financial Year & Period and click on Search button, SRM-II tile will be displayed click on SRM-II tile to proceed.

3. Is Form SRM-II filing mandatory?

Form SRM-II needs to be filed even if there is no business activity (Nil Return) in the tax period.

4. What details have to be furnished in Form SRM-II?

Form SRM-II needs to be filed even if there is no business activity (Nil Return) in the tax period.

 

The following details of SRM-II need to be furnished:

1.   Details of inputs 

2.   Details of production

3.   Power Consumption

4.   Details of grid integrated solar power.

5. By when do I need to file the Form SRM-II for a given tax period?OR What is the due date for filing the Form SRM-II?

The due date to file Form SRM-II is 10th day of the succeeding month for which the return pertains. For example, Form SRM-II for the calendar month of April 2024 needs to be filed by 10th of May 2024.

6. What are the pre-requisites for filing form SRM-II?

Pre-requisites for filing Form GSTR-1 are:

 

a. The taxpayer should be a registered as manufacturer of pan masala and tobacco and should have an active GSTIN during the tax period for which Form SRM-II has to be furnished.

 

b. The taxpayer should have valid login credentials (i.e., User ID and password) to login into GST Portal. c. The taxpayer should have an active and non-expired/ revoked digital signature (DSC), in case the digital signature is mandatory. d. In case taxpayer wants to use EVC, they must have access to the registered mobile number of the Primary Authorized Signatory.

7. How can I download system generated Summary of SRM-II?

After filing of SRM-II, you can download system generated summary of SRM-II in PDF format on clicking of Download Summary (PDF) button. Or you can navigate to Services > Returns > View Filed Returns to view and download SRM-II (PDF) summary.

8. What are communication received after successful filing of Form SRM-II?

a. Application Reference Number (ARN) gets generated on successful filing of Form SRM-II.

 

b. An SMS and email is also sent to the taxpayer on the Mobile Number and E mail ID of his primary authorized signatory.

9. How can I file Nil Form SRM-II?

You can file nil Form GSTR-1 by first Generating Summary and then submitting the return without entering any data and signing with applicable signature.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[90] Responding to intimation of Liability Mismatch in Form GST DRC-01B - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_Return_Compliance.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Return Compliance for the Form DRC-01B Part B

If there is a difference between the liability declared in GSTR-1/IFF and the amount paid through Form GSTR-3B/3BQ that exceeds a pre-defined limit, you will receive an intimation in Form GST DRC-01B. In such cases, it is mandatory to file Form GST DRC-01B Part B to provide the necessary details and reconcile the difference.

Note: If you do not file response of Form GST DRC-01B Part B, then you will not be able to file GSTR-1/IFF for the subsequent Tax period. 

How can I file Form GST DRC-01B PART B?

To file the Form GST DRC-01B Part B, please follow the steps below:
1.    Access the GST portal by visiting www.gst.gov.in. The GST home page will be displayed.
2.    Login to the GST Portal using your valid credentials.
3.    Navigate to Services > Returns > Return Compliance option. Alternatively, you can directly click on the Return Compliance link available on the dashboard.

 

By following these steps, you will be able to access the necessary section to file Form GST DRC-01B Part B on the GST portal.

 

4. The Return Compliance page is displayed. In the Liability Mismatch (DRC-01B) tile, click the VIEW button.

 

 

 

5. The Liability Mismatch (DRC-01B) page is displayed. The pending records will be displayed. Click the Reference number hyperlink.

 

 

Note: Alternatively, you can click any one option from Reference number, Return period or Status to search for the intimation Form GST DRC-01B which is issued to you.

 

Case 1: If you click the Reference number option, then enter the ARN and click the SEARCH button. You will get all the completed and pending records list. 
If the status for the record is pending, then you can file the Form GST DRC-01B.

 

 

Case 2: If you click the Return Period option, then you need to select the Financial Year for which you need to file Form GST DRC-01B and Return Period from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button. You will get the completed and pending records list. 

 

If the status for the record is pending, then you can file the Form GST DRC-01B. 

 

Note: Return Period option will get enabled only after you select the Financial Year.

 

 

Case 3: If you click the Status option, then you need to select the status Pending or Completed from the drop-down list and click the SEARCH button. 

If you select Pending status, then pending records will be displayed. For the Pending record, you can file the Form GST DRC-01B.

If you select the Completed records, then the completed records will be displayed.

 

 

6. The Liability Mismatch (DRC-01B) details page with PART-A and PART-B will be displayed. PART-A will display the Intimation of Difference in Liability Reported in Statement of Outward Supplies and that Reported in Return. 

 

In PART-B Reply by Taxpayer in Respect of the Intimation of Difference in Liability, there are two sub-parts. In part 1, you can provide the ARN of the payment which is made via Form GST DRC-03 for the period for which Form GST DRC-01B has been issued to you.

 

You can also make the payment for the Difference in Liability Reported by clicking the CLICK HERE FOR DRC-03 button. In part 2, you can select the Reason for the Difference in Liability Reported and provide further explanations in the text box.
 

Note 1: You can click the DOWNLOAD DRC-01B PART-A button to download the Form GST DRC-01B PART A form.

 

Note 2: The system generated PDF for Form GST DRC-01B PART A will be downloaded.

 

 

Note 3: Click the DOWNLOAD DRC-01B button. A system-generated draft form will be downloaded into your system as displayed. Check the system-generated draft form carefully to rule out any discrepancy.

 

7. In PART-B, enter the ARN of Form GST DRC-03 through which payment towards discrepancy communicated in Form GST DRC-01B PART A was made  and click the VALIDATE button.

 

 

Note 1: If you have entered the incorrect ARN, then an error message will be displayed.

If you are getting this error message, then you need to check the following points:

•    ARN is valid only, if this is the ARN for same Form GST DRC-03 and of the same GSTIN.
•    The Form GST DRC-03 should have been filed on or after the date on which Form GST DRC-01B part A was issued.
•    The Cause of payment is Liability mismatch – GSTR-1 to GSTR-3B.
•    The overall tax period pertains to the period for which the Form GST DRC-01B Part A has been issued.

        o    For Monthly, it is of the same period, both From and To.

        o    For Quarterly, it is of at least one month of the quarter.

 

Note 2: You will be able to file part B of Form GST DRC-01B by providing response in either sub part 1 or 2 or in both. It is not mandatory to enter ARN of Form GST DRC-03.

 

Note 3: If you click the CLICK HERE FOR DRC-03 button, then you will be navigated to the Form GST DRC-03 page for making the payment, in case you need to pay any amount. 

 

8. The summary of the payment details that has been paid towards the difference amount through Form GST DRC-03 will be displayed.

 

9. Select and explain the reason for the difference in the liability, in the space provided.
Note: In PART-B, you can either validate the ARN of Form GST DRC-03 or provide the reason for the Difference in Liability. You can also provide both, the ARN of Form GST DRC-03 and Difference of Liability.

 

 

Note 1: You can select any reason out of the four options given. If your reason is not specified, then you can select any other reasons and explain the reason in the space provided. You can use up to 500 characters to explain your reason.

 

Note 2: If you have selected the reason for the difference in liability, but not explained the reason in the space provided then, an error message will pop-up.

 

 

Note 3: Click the BACK button to go to the previous page.

 

10. Click the SAVE button. Select the declaration Checkbox. Select the Name of Authorized signatory from the drop-down list and enter the Place. Click the FILE GST DRC-01B button.

 

 

Note 1: The checkbox for selecting the declaration will be enabled only after clicking the Save button.

 

A success message will also be displayed at the top of the screen, upon successfully saving the details.

 

 
Note 2: The FILE GST DRC-01B button will be enabled only after you select the Name of Authorized signatory and entered the Place. Designation/Status and Date will be auto populated.

Note 3: Click the DOWNLOAD DRC-01B button. A system-generated draft form will be downloaded into your system as displayed. Check the system-generated draft form carefully to rule out any discrepancy.

 

 

11. A Warning message will pop-up. Click the PROCEED button.
 

 

Note: If you want to make changes in the PART-B of Form GST DRC-01B, then click the CANCEL button.

 

12. Click the FILE DRC-01B WITH EVC button.
Note: You can also select FILE DRC-01B WITH DSC.

 

 

13. Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Primary Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VERIFY button.

 

 

14. A Success message will pop-up. Click the OK button to complete the process.

 

 

Note: You can check the status of the Form GST DRC-01B as Completed from the Status option. 

 

 

15. Click the Reference number hyperlink.

 

16. The completed form will be displayed. Click the DOWNLOAD DRC-01B button to download the final PDF of Form GST DRC-01B. 

 

 Note: A system-generated final PDF will be downloaded into your system as displayed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[91] Responding to intimation of Liability Mismatch in Form GST DRC-01B - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_Return_Compliance.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Return Compliance for the Form DRC-01B Part B
1. When is Form GST DRC-01B required to be filed?

The system checks the difference between the liability declared in form GSTR-1/IFF and the liability paid in Form GSTR-3B/3BQ for each return period. If the liability declared in GSTR-1 exceeds the liability paid in Form GSTR-3B by a pre-defined limit for a return period or the percentage difference between the liabilities declared in GSTR-1 exceeds the configurable percentage threshold from the liability paid in Form GSTR-3B for a return period, an intimation is sent to you.
Once you receive an intimation in Form GST DRC-01B, i.e., if there is a difference between the liability declared in GSTR-1/IFF and that paid through Form GSTR-3B/3BQ beyond the configurable threshold limit, you need to submit your reply in Form GST DRC-01B Part B.

Note: If a taxpayer doesn’t file response to Form GST DRC-01B for previous tax period, then for the subsequent tax period, they will not be able to file their Form GSTR-1/IFF.

2. For which class of taxpayers is Form GST DRC-01B applicable?

Form GST DRC-01B is applicable to various types of taxpayers, including regular taxpayers (including SEZ units and SEZ developers), casual taxpayers, and taxpayers who have opted in or opted out of the composition scheme. 

3. I have not filed the Form GST DRC-01B for the previous Tax period. Can I still file GSTR-1/IFF for the current Tax period? 

If you have not filed Form GST DRC-01B Part B for any period for which you received an intimation in Form GST DRC-01B Part A, you will not be able to file GSTR-1/IFF for the subsequent period. It is important to ensure timely filing of Form GST DRC-01B Part B to avoid any interruptions in the filing of GSTR-1/IFF. 

4. How will I be intimated that I have to submit reply in Form GST DRC-01B Part B? 

Once the intimation in Form GST DRC-01B Part A is generated, a Reference Number will be assigned. You will receive the intimation via email and SMS, which will include the Reference Number. Please ensure to check both your email and mobile messages for the intimation and keep the Reference Number handy for future reference and correspondence.
Note: You can also check this intimation on GST Portal. Navigate to Services > Returns > Return Compliance > Liability Mismatch DRC-01B.

5. Is Form GST DRC-01B Part B required to be filed monthly or quarterly? 

For quarterly filers (QRMP), Form GST DRC-01B will be generated, if applicable, after filing the quarterly Form GSTR-3B. On the other hand, for monthly filers, Form GST DRC-01B will be generated on a monthly basis after filing the monthly Form GSTR-3B. Therefore, Form GST DRC-01B Part B can be filed either on a monthly or quarterly basis, depending on the frequency of filing Form GSTR-3B.

6. After filing the reply for Form GST DRC-01B Part B, how much time will it take to unblock the Form GSTR-1/IFF? When will I be able to file GSTR-1/IFF?

After filing the reply for Form GST DRC-01B Part B, you can instantly file GSTR-1/IFF. If you are facing any issue while filing GSTR-1/IFF, then you need to log out and log in again after a few minutes.

7. While entering the ARN for filing the reply for Form DRC-01B Part B, I am getting an error message stating that ‘Please provide valid ARN of Form GST DRC-03’. Why am I getting this error message?

If you encounter an error message while entering the ARN to file the reply for Form GST DRC-01B Part B, please check the following points:
•    Ensure that the ARN is valid and corresponds to the same Form GST DRC-03 and GSTIN.
•    The Form GST DRC-03 should have been filed on or after the date when Form GST DRC-01B Part A was issued.
•    Confirm that the cause of payment specified in the Form GST DRC-03 is "Liability mismatch - GSTR-1 to GSTR-3B."
•    The overall tax period should align with the period for which Form GST DRC-01B Part A was issued.
•    For monthly filers, the period should be the same, including both the "From" and "To" dates.
•    For quarterly filers, it should cover at least one month within the quarter. 

8. How can I deselect any reason for the payment difference, after providing the details for the reason selected earlier? 

If you deselect any reasons for difference after providing the details, the system will display an error message, requesting for deletion of details already provided. So, after deleting the details entered for the reason selected earlier, you will be able to deselect that reason.

9. How to view and download the filed Form GST DRC-01B?

To view filed Form GST DRC-01B navigate to Returns > Return Compliance > Liability Mismatch (DRC-01B), select the radio button for Status. Select Completed from drop-down list and click the SEARCH button. Click the Reference number hyperlink for the order you want to view or download. The completed form will be displayed. Click the DOWNLOAD DRC-01B button to download the final PDF of Form DRC-01B.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[92] Responding to initmation of ITC mismatch in form GST DRC-01C - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_Return_Compliance_ITC.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Return Compliance in Form DRC-01C (Intimation of difference in ITC available and ITC claimed)

If there is a difference between the ITC available as per Form GSTR-2B and ITC claimed in Form GSTR-3B/3BQ that exceeds a pre-defined limit, you will receive an intimation in Form GST DRC-01C. The ITC mismatch details would be available in Part-A of Form GST DRC-01C. In such cases, it is mandatory to file Form GST DRC-01C Part B to provide the necessary details and reconcile the difference.

 

Note: If you do not file response of Form GST DRC-01C Part B, then you will not be able to file GSTR-1/IFF for the subsequent tax period. 

How can I file Form GST DRC-01C PART B?

To file the Form GST DRC-01C Part B, please follow the steps below:

1. Access the GST portal by visiting www.gst.gov.in. The GST home page will be displayed.
2. Login to the GST Portal using your valid credentials.
3. Navigate to Services > Returns > Return Compliance option. Alternatively, you can directly click on the Return Compliance link available on the dashboard.

 

  

By following these steps, you will be able to access the necessary section to file Form GST DRC-01C Part B on the GST portal.

 

4. The Return Compliance page is displayed. In the ITC Mismatch (DRC-01C) tile, click the VIEW button.

 

  
5. The ITC Mismatch (DRC-01C) page is displayed. The pending DRC-01C will be displayed. Click the Reference number hyperlink.

 

 

Note: Alternatively, you can click any one option from Reference number, Return period or Status to search for the intimation Form GST DRC-01C which is issued to you.

 

Case 1: If you click the Reference number option, then enter the ARN and click the SEARCH button. You will get all the completed and pending records list. If the status for the record is pending, then you can file the Form GST DRC-01C.

 

 

Case 2: If you click the Return period option, then you need to select the Financial Year for which you need to file Form GST DRC-01C and Return period from the drop-down list. Click the SEARCH button. You will get the completed and pending records list. If the status for the record is pending, then you can file the Form GST DRC-01C. 

 

 

Case 3: If you click the Status option, then you need to select the status Pending or Completed from the drop-down list and click the SEARCH button. If you select Pending status, then pending records will be displayed. For the Pending record, you can file the Form GST DRC-01C. If you select the Completed records, then the completed records will be displayed.

 

 

6. Click the Reference number hyperlink.

 

 
7. The ITC Mismatch (DRC-01C) details page with PART-A and PART-B will be displayed. PART-A will display the Intimation of difference in input tax credit available in auto-generated statement containing the details of input tax credit and that availed in return.
 
In PART-B Reply by Taxpayer in respect of the intimation of difference in input tax credit, there are two sub-parts. 
In part 1, you can provide the ARN of the payment which is made via Form GST DRC-03 for the period for which Form GST DRC-01C has been issued to you.

 

You can also make the payment for the difference in ITC by clicking the CLICK HERE FOR DRC-03 button. 
In part 2, you can select the Reason for the Difference in ITC Reported and provide further explanations in the text box.

 

 

Note 1: You can click the DOWNLOAD DRC-01C PART-A button to download the Form GST DRC-01C PART A form.

 

Note 2: The system generated PDF for Form GST DRC-01C PART A will be downloaded.

 

 

 8. In PART-B, enter the ARN of Form GST DRC-03 through which payment towards discrepancy communicated in Form GST DRC-01C PART A was made and click the VALIDATE button.

 

 
Note 1: If you have entered the incorrect ARN, then an error message will be displayed.

 

 If you are getting this error message, then you need to check the following points:

•    ARN is valid only, if this is the ARN for same Form GST DRC-03 and of the same GSTIN.
•    The Form GST DRC-03 should have been filed on or after the date on which Form GST DRC-01C part A was issued.
•    The Cause of payment is ITC mismatch – GSTR-2A/2B to GSTR- 3B.
•    The overall tax period pertains to the period for which the Form GST DRC-01C Part A has been issued.
        o    For Monthly, it is of the same period, both From and To.
        o    For Quarterly, it is of at least one month of the quarter.

 

Note 2: You will be able to file part B of Form GST DRC-01C by providing response in either sub part 1 or 2 or in both. It is not mandatory to enter ARN of Form GST DRC-03.

 

Note 3: If you click the CLICK HERE FOR DRC-03 button, then you will be navigated to the Form GST DRC-03 page for making the payment in case you need to pay any amount. 

 

9. The summary of the payment details that has been paid towards the difference amount through Form GST DRC-03 will be displayed.

 

 

10. Select and explain the reason for the difference in the ITC, in the space provided.

 

Note: In PART-B, you can either validate the ARN of Form GST DRC-03 or provide the reason for the Difference in ITC. You can also provide both, the ARN of Form GST DRC-03 in Part_1 and the reason for difference of ITC in Part_2.

 

Note 1: You can select any reason out of the four options given. If your reason is not specified, then you can select any other reasons and explain the reason in the space provided. You can use up to 500 characters to explain your reason.

Note 2: If you have selected the reason for the difference in ITC, but not explained the reason in the space provided then, an error message will pop-up.

 

 

Note 3: Click the BACK button to go to the previous page.

 

11. Select the declaration Checkbox. Select the Name of Authorized signatory from the drop-down list and enter the Place. Click the SAVE button and then click the FILE GST DRC-01C button.

 

 

Note 1: The checkbox for selecting the declaration will be enabled only after saving the details in either sub section A and/or B of PART B of Form GST DRC-01C. 

A success message will also be displayed at the top of the screen, upon successfully saving the details.

 

After selecting declaration check box SAVE button will be enabled.

 

Note 2: The FILE GST DRC-01C button will be enabled only after you select the Name of Authorized signatory and enter the Place. Designation/Status and Date will be auto populated.

 

Note 3: Click the PREVIEW DRC-01C button. 

 

A system-generated draft order will be downloaded into your system as displayed. Check the system-generated draft order carefully to rule out any discrepancy. 

 

 

11. A Warning message will pop-up. Click the PROCEED button.

Note: If you want to make changes in the Form GST PART-B of DRC-01C, then click the CANCEL button.

 

12. Click the FILE DRC-01C WITH EVC button.

Note: You can also select FILE DRC-01C WITH DSC.

 

 

13. Enter the OTP sent on email and mobile number of the Primary Authorized Signatory registered at the GST Portal and click the VERIFY button.

 

14. A Success message will pop-up. Click the OK button to complete the process.

 

 

Note: You can check the status of the Form GST DRC-01C as Completed from the Status option. 

15. Click the Reference number hyperlink.

 

 
16. The completed form will be displayed. Click the DOWNLOAD DRC-01C button to download the final PDF of Form Form GST DRC-01C.  

Note: A system-generated final PDF will be downloaded into your system as displayed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[93] Responding to initmation of ITC mismatch in form GST DRC-01C - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQs_Return_Compliance_ITC.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Return Compliance in Form DRC-01C (Intimation of difference in ITC available and ITC claimed)
1. When is Form GST DRC-01C required to be filed? 

The system checks the difference  between the ITC available as per Form GSTR-2B  and ITC claimed in Form GSTR-3B/3BQ for each return period. If the ITC available in Form GSTR-2B exceeds the ITC claimed in Form GSTR-3B/3BQ by a pre-defined limit for a return period or the percentage difference between the ITC available as per Form GSTR-2B exceeds by a predefined percentage from the ITC claimed in Form GSTR-3B for a return period, an intimation is sent to you.

Once you receive an intimation in Form GST DRC-01C , i.e., if there is a difference between the ITC available in Form GSTR-2B and that claimed through Form GSTR-3B/3BQ beyond the threshold, you need to submit a reply in Form GST DRC-01C Part B.

 

Note: If a taxpayer doesn’t file response to Form GST DRC-01C for previous tax period, then for the subsequent tax period, they will not be able to file their Form GSTR-1/IFF.

2. For which class of taxpayers is Form GST DRC-01C applicable?

Form GST DRC-01C is applicable to various types of taxpayers, including regular taxpayers (including SEZ units and SEZ developers), casual taxpayers, and taxpayers who have opted out of the composition scheme. 

3. I have not filed the Form GST DRC-01C for the previous Tax period. Can I still file GSTR-1/IFF for the current Tax period? 

If you have not filed Form GST DRC-01C Part B for any period for which you received an intimation in Form GST DRC-01C Part A, you will not be able to file GSTR-1/IFF for the subsequent period. It is important to ensure timely filing of Form GST DRC-01C Part B to avoid any interruptions in the filing of GSTR-1/IFF. 

4. How will I be intimated that I have to submit reply in Form GST DRC-01C Part B? 

Once the intimation in Form GST DRC-01C Part A is generated, a Reference Number will be assigned. You will receive the intimation via email and SMS, which will include the Reference Number. Please ensure to check both your email and mobile messages for the intimation and keep the Reference Number handy for future reference and correspondence.

 

Note: You can also check this intimation on GST Portal. Navigate to Services > Returns > Return Compliance > ITC Mismatch DRC-01C.

5. Is Form GST DRC-01C Part B required to be filed monthly or quarterly?

For quarterly filers (QRMP), Form GST DRC-01C will be generated, if applicable, after filing the quarterly Form GSTR-3B. On the other hand, for monthly filers, Form GST DRC-01C will be generated on a monthly basis after filing the monthly Form GSTR-3B. Therefore, Form GST DRC-01C Part B can be filed either on a monthly or quarterly basis, depending on the frequency of filing Form GSTR-3B. 

6. After filing the reply for Form GST DRC-01C Part B, how much time will it take to unblock the Form GSTR-1/IFF? When will I be able to file GSTR-1/IFF?

After filing the reply for Form GST DRC-01C Part B, you can instantly file GSTR-1/IFF. If you are facing any issue while filing GSTR-1/IFF, then you need to log out and log in again after a few minutes. 

7. While entering the ARN for filing the reply for Form GST DRC-01C Part B, I am getting an error message stating that ‘Please provide valid ARN of DRC-03’. Why am I getting this error message? 

If you encounter an error message while entering the ARN to file the reply for Form GST DRC-01C Part B, please check the following points: 
•    Ensure that the ARN is valid and corresponds to the same Form GST DRC-03  and GSTIN. 
•    The Form GST DRC-03 should have been filed on or after the date when Form GST DRC-01C Part A was issued. 
•    Confirm that the cause of payment specified in the Form GST DRC-03 is "ITC Mismatch- GSTR 2A/2B to GSTR-3B." 
•    The overall tax period should align with the period for which Form GST DRC-01C Part A was issued. 
         •    For monthly filers, the period should be the same, including both the "From" and "To" dates. 
         •    For quarterly filers, it should cover at least one month within the quarter. 

8. How can I deselect any reason for the payment difference, after providing the details for the reason selected earlier?  

If you deselect any reasons for difference after providing the details, the system will display an error message, requesting for deletion of details already provided. So, after deleting the details entered for the reason selected earlier, you will be able to deselect that reason. 

9. How to view and download the filed Form GST DRC-01C?

To view filed Form GST DRC-01C navigate to Returns > Return Compliance > ITC Mismatch (DRC-01C), select the radio button for Status. Select Completed from drop-down list and click the SEARCH button. Click the Reference number hyperlink for the order you want to view or download. The completed form will be displayed. Click the DOWNLOAD DRC-01C button to download the final PDF of Form DRC-01C.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[94] Navigating the Returns Dashboard - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/navigatingreturnsdashboard

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Navigating Returns Dashboard
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[95] Tracking Return Status - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/trackreturn

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Tracking Return Status
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[96] Tracking Return Status - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Track_Return_Status_Manual.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Track Return Status
I am a taxpayer. How can I track return status that I have submitted after logging to the GST Portal?

On submission of the return, you will be given an Application Reference Number (ARN). You can track status of your application by tracking this ARN. To track return status, perform the following steps:

 

1. Access the https://www.gst.gov.in/ URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Click the Services > Returns> Track Return Status command.

 

 

Select Financial Year from the drop-down list and click on SEARCH button.

In Case of ARN:

 

a) Select Financial Year from the dropdown list and click on SEARCH button.

b) In the ARN field, enter the ARN received on your e-mail address when you submitted the return.

c) Click the SEARCH button.

The status of selected financial year will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

In Case of Return Filing Period:

a) Select Financial Year from the dropdown list and click on SEARCH button.

b) Select the Submission Period of the return using the calendar.

c) Click the SEARCH button.

The status of selcted financial year will be displayed.

 

 

In Case of Status:

 

a) Select Financial Year from the dropdown list and click on SEARCH button.

b) Select the Status of the return from the drop-down list.

c) Click the SEARCH button.

The status of selcted financial year will be displayed.

 

To view the various Return status types refer the FAQs available at ->  https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Track_Return_Status.htm

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[97] Tracking Return Status - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Track_Return_Status.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Track Return Status
1. Can I track the status of my Return Application?

Yes, you can track the status by using the Services > Returns> Track Return Status service from the GST Portal.

2. What are different Return application status types?

1. TO BE FILED : Return due but not filed

2. SUBMITTED BUT NOT FILED: Return Validated but pending filing

3. FILED – VALID: Return Filed

4. FILED - INVALID: Return Filed but tax not paid or short paid

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[98] Viewing e-Filed Returns - Link
URL: https://www.gst.gov.in/help/video/viewefiledreturn

Skip to Main Content  A+ A-
 
Goods and Services Tax
Government of India, States and Union Territories
REGISTER LOGIN
Home
Services 
GST Law
Downloads 
Search Taxpayer 
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
e-Invoice
News and Updates
Help : Viewing e-Filed Returns
About GST
GST Council Structure
GST History
Website Policies
Website Policy
Terms and Conditions
Hyperlink Policy
Disclaimer
Related Sites
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
State Tax Websites
National Portal
Help and Taxpayer Facilities
System Requirements
GST Knowledge Portal
GST Media
Site Map
Grievance Nodal Officers
Free Accounting and Billing Services
GST Suvidha Providers
Contact Us
Help Desk Number:
1800-103-4786
Log/Track Your Issue:
Grievance Redressal Portal for GST
   

© 2025-26 Goods and Services Tax Network

Site Last Updated on 24-02-2026

Designed & Developed by GSTN

Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome 49+, Firefox 45+ and Safari 6+

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[99] Viewing e-Filed Returns - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=View_e-filed_Returns_Manual.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > View Filed Returns
I am a taxpayer. How can I view my filed Returns/Statements?

View Returns/Statements

View Filed Form GST SRM_I

View Filed Form GST SRM_II

 

To view your filed returns, perform the following steps:

 

1. Access the https://www.gst.gov.in/ URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Click the Services > Returns > View Filed Returns option.

 

 

4. Select the Financial Year, Return Filing Period and Return Type from the drop-down list.

 

Note:

In case of  Return Filing Period as Quarterly, select the Quarter from the drop-down list.

In case of  Return Filing Period as Monthly, select the Month from the drop-down list.

 

5. Click the SEARCH button.

 

 

Note:

a. If return type is not selected, for normal taxpayer GSTR-1, and GSTR-3B will be listed and the taxpayer need to click Search  Button. 
b. If return type is not selected, for composition taxpayer, CMP-08, GSTR-4, GSTR-4 (Annual) will be listed, and the taxpayer need to click Search  Button.

 

6. The search results are displayed. You can click the View link to view the filed return.

To download the Signed Form, click on the Download link.

 

 

7. Download Filed Form CMP-08 page is displayed. Click on the GENERATE SIGNED  PDF OF FILED CMP 08 button to process the downloading of the filed Return.

 

 

8. Acknowledgement message will be displayed stating that the process may take upto 5 minutes to complete.  

 

 

Note: If you click on the GENERATE SIGNED  PDF OF FILED CMP 08 before the generation request is completed,  following warning message will be displayed.

 

 

9. After completion of 5 minutes, click on the  button and on the GENERATE SIGNED  PDF OF FILED CMP 08 to download Signed Form. 

 

 

I am a taxpayer. How can I view my filed Form GST SRM I?

For downloading filed GST SRM -I follow these steps:

 

1. Access the https://www.gst.gov.in/ URL. The GST Home page is displayed.

2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.

3. Navigate to  Services > Returns > View Filed Returns option.

 

 

4. View Filed Returns page will be displayed on the screen. Select financial year, return filing period and month from Financial Year, Return Filing Period and Month drop-down list respectively. Select SRM-I from Return Type drop-down list.

 

 

5. Click on SEARCH button after selecting all details. A table will be displayed on the screen. Click on View hyperlink under View/Download column.

 

 

6. GST SRM-I page will be displayed on the screen. Click on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (PDF) button to download summary of GST SRM-I form in PDF format or click on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (EXCEL) button to download summary of GST SRM-I form in excel format.

 

 

 

7. On clicking of  DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (PDF) button following PDF of filed form GST SRM-I will be downloaded in the system.

 

 

Note 1: Registration number of machine will be available in Final PDF of filed GST SRM form-1, for each machine which registered in table 6 of SRM-I.

 

Note 2: On clicking of DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (EXCEL) tab following excel file will be downloaded. Taxpayer can view the details of each table by clicking on the table name.  

 

 

Click here to go back to main menu

I am a taxpayer. How can I view my filed Form GST SRM II?

To view your filed Form GST SRM II, perform the following steps:

 

1. Access the https://www.gst.gov.in/ URL. The GST Home page is displayed.
2. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials.
3. Navigate to Services > Returns > View Filed Returns option.

 

 

4. View Filed Returns page will be displayed on the screen. Select financial year, return filing period and month from Financial Year, Return Filing Period and Month dropdown list respectively. Select SRM-II from Return Type dropdown list.

 

 

5. Click on SEARCH button after selecting all details. A table will be displayed on the screen. Click on View hyperlink under View/Download column.

 

 

6. GST SRM-II page will be displayed on the screen. Click on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (PDF) button to download summary of GST SRM-II form in PDF format or click on DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (EXCEL) button to download summary of GST SRM-I form in excel format.

 

 

7. Following PDF of filed form GST SRM-II will be downloaded in the system.

 

 

 

Note: On clicking of DOWNLOAD SUMMARY (EXCEL) tab following excel file will be downloaded. Taxpayer can view the details of each table by clicking on the table name.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[100] Viewing e-Filed Returns - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=View_e-filed_Returns.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > View filed Returns
1. Can I view or download my previously filed returns?

Yes, you can view and download your filed returns by using the Services > Returns > View Filed Returns service from the GST Portal. 

2. How can I download Signed PDF of the filed Returns/Statements?

You can download the Signed PDF of the Filed Returns by clicking on the Download link under Download Signed Form column. 

1. What is Invoice Management System (IMS)?

Invoice Management System (IMS) is a facility in GST system, where the invoices/records saved/filed by the supplier in GSTR-1/1A/IFF, can be accepted, rejected or kept pending by recipients in order to correctly avail ITC. 

2. How can recipients access IMS dashboard?

To access IMS dashboard navigate to GST Portal Dashboard > Services > Returns > Invoice Management System (IMS) Dashboard.

3. From when can taxpayers access IMS dashboard?

IMS will be launched on the GST Portal from 1st October 2024 and will be available to the taxpayers for taking actions on the received invoices/records from 14th October 2024 onwards.

4. What all records will be available on IMS dashboard for taking an action?

All the saved or filed original invoices/records and their amendments by suppliers through GSTR1/1A/IFF will be available to the recipient for taking actions in IMS dashboard. However, the documents where ITC is not eligible either due to:
i. POS rule or
ii. Section 16(4) of the CGST Act,
will not appear on IMS dashboard and will directly go to ‘ITC Not Available’ section of GSTR-2B

5. What will happen to the accepted and rejected record?

All the accepted/rejected records belonging to a particular GSTR-2B period will be removed from IMS on filing of GSTR-3B for that particular period. Only the pending record and the invoices/records belonging to future tax period will remain in IMS.

6. When will the documents be available on IMS dashboard?

The documents will be available in IMS as soon as they are saved by the supplier in their corresponding GSTR-1/1A/IFF.

7. When can the recipient taxpayer take action on a record?

As soon as a supplier/ taxpayer saves an Invoice/ records in GSTR-1/1A/IFF, it is shown and is available to the recipient taxpayer in IMS for taking actions.

8. What all documents will not be made available in IMS but will be part of GSTR-2B?

Below records will not be part of IMS but will directly flow to GSTR-2B:
1. Document flowing from the following forms: GSTR 5 and GSTR 6
2. ICEGATE documents
3. RCM records 
4. Document where ITC is ineligible due to: POS rules and Section 16(4) of CGST Act
5. Documents where ITC to be reversed on account of Rule 37A

9. Who will have access to IMS functionality?

Taxpayers registered as normal taxpayers (including SEZ unit/Developer) and casual taxpayers will be able to access IMS functionality.

10. What actions recipient taxpayer can take on an IMS?

Below actions are allowed to take in IMS:
i. Accept
ii. Reject
iii. Pending
Note: By default all the records will flow into “No Action” category and records with “No Action” will be deemed accepted at the time of GSTR-2B generation.

11. Are there any invoices/records where pending action is not allowed in IMS?

Yes, for the following 4 scenarios, pending action would not be available : -
A. Original Credit note rejected by the recipient 
B. Upward amendment of the credit note rejected by the recipient irrespective of the action taken by recipient on the original credit note 
C. Downward amendment of the credit note rejected by the recipient if original credit note was rejected by him, 
D. Downward amendment of Invoice/ Debit note rejected by the recipient where original Invoice/ Debit note was accepted by him and respective GSTR 3B has also been filed.

12. Can I take actions multiple time on a document?

Yes, action can be taken multiple times on an invoice/record before filling of GSTR 3B. In case of multiple actions on a record, latest action will overwrite the previous action. However, the action taken will be frozen at the time of filing the corresponding GSTR-3B by the recipient. 

13. What happens to the original record if the same record is amended by the supplier?

If original and amended record belongs to 2 different GSTR 2B return period, then it is mandatory to take action on original record and file the respective GSTR 3B before taking action on amended record (amended through GSTR-1/1A/IFF). In case if recipient take the action on amended record first then system will not allow to save the action in IMS.In case both the original records and amended records belong to same period GSTR-2B, the action taken on amended records will prevail over the action taken on original record.

14. What will happen to documents on which taxpayers has taken an action on IMS?

The documents will be treated in following manner based on different kind of action:
i. Accept –Accepted records will become part of ‘ITC Available’ section of respective GSTR 2B. ITC of accepted records will auto-populate in 
GSTR 3B.
ii. Reject –Rejected records will become part of ‘ITC Rejected’ section of respective GSTR 2B. ITC of rejected records will not auto-populate in GSTR 3B.
iii. Pending –Pending records will not become part of GSTR 2B and GSTR 3B. Such records will remain on IMS dashboard till the time same is accepted or rejected or till the time timeline prescribed in Section 16(4) of CGST Act.
iv. No Action - records with “No Action” status will be deemed accepted at the time of GSTR-2B generation.

15. Which documents will be considered for GSTR-2B generation?

All the filed and accepted (no action will be treated as deemed accepted) or rejected records will be considered for GSTR-2B generation as per the cut-off  dated of GSTR-2B. Saved records unless filed will be considered as “no action committed and thus will flow as the status of the record that existed before saving for GSTR-2B generation.

16. What if recipient has taken an action on a document in saved status but the same is edited/changed by the supplier before filing his GSTR-1?

In case a saved record is edited before filing of GSTR-1 by the supplier, the amended record will replace the saved document in IMS and the action taken on such record by the recipient will be reset. Thus, the edited record will be available for recipient for fresh action in IMS. Similarly, if a document is deleted before filing of GSTR-1/1A/IFF by supplier then such document will be removed from IMS also.

17. Will Reverse Charge document received from registered suppliers also form part of IMS?

No, RCM invoices are not part of IMS but will continue to be part of GSTR-2B as it is being reflected today.

18. What all details can taxpayer view on the IMS dashboard?

The IMS has two different view:
i. Recipient view: As a recipient, a taxpayer will have an “inward supply” view to see all the specified documents which are saved or filed by your respective supplier. These documents will be available for actions by the recipient.
ii. Supplier view: As a supplier, a taxpayer will have an “Outward supply” view to see actions taken on all the specified documents by their respective recipient.

*It will be made available shortly.

19. What happens if recipient reject a record?

1.If the recipient rejects the record before filling of GSTR 1 by supplier, then the invoice/record can be edited and supplier can file the GSTR 1 with same detail. This edited record will be made available in the IMS for action by the recipient.
2.If the recipient rejects after filling of GSTR 1 by supplier, then the supplier needs to amend/add the invoice/record in GSTR-1A or in subsequent GSTR 1/ IFF with same detail. Amended record will be made available in the IMS for action by the recipient.

20. What will happen to the documents on IMS dashboard on filing of GSTR 3B by recipient?

All the accepted/rejected records belonging to a particular GSTR-2B period will be removed from IMS on filing of GSTR-3B for that particular period.

21. What will happen to the documents kept as pending in IMS dashboard?

Pending records will continue to be in IMS till the time of cut-off date as per section 16(4) of CGST Act, 2017.
Once records crossed the timeline prescribed in section 16(4) of CGST Act, it will be removed from IMS.

22. Can I download all the data available in IMS?

Yes, excel download facility is available to download the IMS data.

23. What is draft GSTR 2B?

GSTR-2B will continue to be generated on 14th of every month with the same logic as current GSTR-2B which will now be considered as draft GSTR 2B. This draft will consist of all the accepted / deemed accepted records and rejected records. Here, rejected records are for view only and will not flow in GSTR-3B.

24. Can recipient take any action after generation of draft GSTR 2B?

Yes, the recipient will be allowed to take an action on any record available in draft GSTR 2B also, till the filing of GSTR-3B. In such cases, at the time of filling GSTR-3B recipient will require to recompute his GSTR 2B to have impact of actions taken after 14th in his GSTR-3B.

25. Is there any scenario where draft GSTR 2B will not be generated by system on 14th of subsequent month?

Yes, in case the previous period GSTR 3B is not filed by the taxpayer then the system will not generate their draft GSTR 2B on 14th of the subsequent month. However, the taxpayer can generate their GSTR 2B from the IMS dashboard after filing their previous GSTR 3B.

26. How many times can GSTR 2B be recomputed/regenerated?

Before filling of GSTR 3B, there is no restriction on number of times such GSTR-2B can be recomputed/regenerated.

27. What about GSTR-2B for quarterly taxpayers?

For quarterly taxpayers, GSTR-2B will not be generated for the months M1 and M2 of the quarter. However, GSTR-2BQ for the quarter (M1, M2 and M3 combined) will be generated on 14th of Q+1 month and re-computation of 2B will be allowed on or after 14th of Q+1 month till filing of corresponding GSTR-3B. The same logic as is there for monthly GSTR-2B / 3B will be applicable.

28. What will happen to GSTR-2A?

GSTR-2A shall continue to be generated as it is. 

29. Is it mandatory to re-compute GSTR 2B?

If there is any change made by recipient on IMS dashboard after draft GSTR 2B generation by system, it is mandatory to re-compute GSTR 2B. 

30. How to take an action on records available on IMS dashboard?

1. Action on Individual record: To take action on individual record, recipient can select the action by clicking on the radio button available at line-item level and then click on save button to save the action taken.
2. Action on multiple records: To take action on multiple records in one go, recipient can select multiple records or all the records through check-box option available on screen. After selecting multiple records, system will enable main action buttons on heading of action radio buttons with count of selected records. Through these action buttons recipient can take action on multiple records in one go
Note: On all the multiple selected records, only one type of action can be taken

31. What will happen if the recipient rejects the Tax Invoice or Debit Note for the supplies of FY 23-24 which was eligible for GSTR 2B of Oct’24, given the deadline to avail the ITC by 30th November?

Taxpayer are advised to reconcile their records before filling of their GSTR 1 for October 2024 tax period for which due date is 11th November 2024. The Taxpayer can accept/reject the record on IMS after due verification. The ITC for the rejected record will not flow to GSTR 2B for Oct’24. However, recipient can change the action from rejected to accepted in IMS and recompute GSTR 2B at the time of filing GSTR 3B and take corresponding ITC in the GSTR 3B for Oct’24

32. Can a supplier amend FCM invoice to RCM invoice and what will the impact on the ITC?

Yes, the supplier can amend an Invoice from FCM to RCM subject to the time limit as per GST law. The system shall reduce the ITC of the amended FCM Invoice in case the said invoice was accepted by the recipient. Further, the RCM invoice shall flow to GSTR 2B of the recipient.

33. Can the place of supply be changed by the supplier in the GSTR 1 and what will be the impact on the ITC?

Yes, place of supply can be changed by the supplier in the GSTR 1 subject to the time limit given in the GST law. Further if the ITC become ineligible due to change in place of supply, then recipient should reverse the ITC in the Table 4B1.

34. What will happen if the recipient rejects the original Credit Note or upward amended Credit Note?

If the recipient rejects the Credit note and furnished the GSTR 3B then the corresponding liability will be added to the supplier liability in the GSTR 3B of subsequent tax period.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[101] Invoice Management System (IMS) Dashboard - User Manual
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=Manual_IMS_Dashboard.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

Manual > Invoice Management System

Invoice Management System (IMS) is an ITC ecosystem of GST. IMS dashboard will allow the recipient taxpayers to either accept or reject an inward supply record or to keep it pending in the system, the input tax credit (ITC) of which can be availed later. Only the accepted record by the recipients would become part of their GSTR-2B as their eligible ITC. This IMS dashboard will enable recipient taxpayers to review the genuineness and authenticity of the records reported by their suppliers in Form GSTR-1/IFF/GSTR-1A. This will also facilitate taxpayer in matching of their records/invoices issued by their suppliers for availing the correct Input Tax Credit (ITC).
To take actions on IMS dashboard perform following steps: 

1. Access the www.gst.gov.in URL. The GST Home page is displayed. Login to the GST Portal with valid credentials. Click the Services > Returns > Invoice Management System (IMS) option.

 

 

2. Invoice Management System (IMS) dashboard will be displayed on the screen. There are two sections:

2.1. Inward Supplies: Dashboard to view and act on inward supplies reported by your supplier in GSTR-1/IFF/GSTR-1A.
2.2. Outward Supplies: Dashboard to view status of outward supplies reported based on action taken by your recipient.

 

 

IMS Dashboard – Inward Supplies

2.1.1.  To view and act on Imports and inward supplies reported by your supplier in GSTR-1/IFF/GSTR-1A click on the VIEW button on Inward Supplies tile on the dashboard.

 

 

2.1.2.  On clicking of VIEW button an information message will be displayed on the screen. Click on the OKAY button to proceed further. 

 

 

2.1.3. On clicking of the OKAY button, summary page of Inward Supplies will be displayed on the screen. By default, All other ITC tab will be selected. Taxpayer can click on the VIEW ADVISORY tab to view advisory and can click on the HELP button to take any help.

 

 

On clicking on the VIEW ADVISORY button advisory will be displayed on the screen. Click on the DOWNLOAD ADVISORY button to download the advisory.
 

 

Note: The two tabs Inward Supplies from ISD and Import of Goods shall be enabled shortly. 

 

2.1.4.  Taxpayer can click on B2B-Invoices hyperlink under Heading column to view the saved records in GSTR1/IFF/GSTR-1A under B2B invoices. Alternatively, taxpayer can click on the number hyperlinks under No Action, Accepted, Rejected, Pending columns to view the respective records. Taxpayer can view the number of records under No Action, Accepted, Rejected, Pending columns. By default, all saved records in GSTR1/IFF/GSTR-1A comes under No Action column. 

 

 

Note 1: 
No Action: All the records that are saved by the supplier taxpayers in their form GSTR1/IFF/GSTR-1A and on which no action has been taken by recipient taxpayer.
Accepted: Number of records that are accepted by recipient taxpayer.
Rejected: Number of records that are rejected by recipient taxpayer.
Pending: Number of records that are marked pending by recipient taxpayer.

 

Note 2: All the records where ITC is not available to the recipient taxpayers (either due to section 16(4) of CGST Act, 2017, or where the supplier and POS are in same state while recipient is in another State as per the record) will directly go to ITC Not Available section of GSTR-2B and will not flow to IMS.
Similarly, records where ITC reversal happen due to Rule 37A, will continue to go to ITC Reversal section of GSTR-2B and will not flow to IMS. 

 

Note 3: In case there are more than 500 records in B2B-Invoices table, system will not display the records in online user interface. On click of B2B-Invoices hyperlink, GST system shall display the Advance Search option. However, in case any of the statuses i.e., No action, Accepted, Rejected and/or Pending are having records upto 500, then taxpayer can click the said number hyperlink (under statuses columns) and view the records. Following illustration will give more clarity on this:
Illustration: Taxpayers have 510 records under B2B-Invoices table with the following statuses:
•    No Action – 7
•    Accepted – 300
•    Rejected – 200
•    Pending – 4

On click of B2B-Invoice hyperlink, system will navigate the taxpayer to the Advance Search page. However, in such scenario, taxpayer will be able to click on all number hyperlinks under each status and view the respective records. This is because the records under each status are less than 500 in numbers. 

 

 

On the Advance Search page you can directly search for the record by entering GSTIN of Supplier, Invoice Number and Invoice Date in respective fields. After entering details click on the SEARCH button to search. Once the record is displayed, taxpayer can take action on the same. Or taxpayer can click on the BACK TO SUMMARY button to go back to summary page. You can download the IMS excel by clicking on Download hyperlink on the Advance Search page.

 

 

2.1.5.  On clicking of B2B-Invoices hyperlink, taxpayer will navigate to B2B-Invoices page and all the records will be displayed on the screen. Taxpayer can enter keywords in Search field to search the desired output.

 

 

 

Taxpayer can filter the list by entering GSTIN of Supplier in respective field or by selecting Invoice Type, Status, Source from the respective dropdown list. Click on the APPLY button to apply the filter or click on RESET button to reset the filters or click on the CLOSE button to close the filter.

 

 

To remove the applied filter, click on the cross icon. 

 

 

2.1.6. Taxpayer can take action on the record by directly clicking on A, R, P buttons or taxpayer can select the specified records by clicking on checkbox in the S.No. column. After selection, taxpayer can either accept, reject or keep the said records pending by selecting the action from the header and click on the SAVE button.

 

 

Note 1:
A: Accept the record
R: Reject the record
P: Mark pending for future action.
Note 2: System will not allow to select both check box and individual action at the same time. In other words, taxpayer shall be allowed to use any one of the above methods at a time. Once the taxpayer selects check box, system will disable the individual actions available against each record and similarly if any individual action is selected then system will disable the check box selection option.
Note 3: On clicking of SAVE button a popup message will be displayed on the screen, click on the PROCEED button to proceed.

 

 

On clicking of PROCEED button a message of successful submission will be displayed on the screen. Click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

Note 4: If partial records got saved and partial processed with error, then below error message will appear.

 

 

Note 5: If taxpayer tries to move to Summary screen or change any filters provided without saving the actions taken by him/her, below warning message will appear on a pop-up screen. Click on the PROCEED button to proceed or click on the CANCEL button to cancel.

 

 

2.1.7. Taxpayer can also select all records for action by clicking on S.No. check box. A popup will be displayed on the screen. Click on Select all records of current page only-10 records if you want to select current page records or click on Select all records of current page only-16 records radio button if you want to select all records.
Click on the PROCEED button to proceed.

 

 

After selection, taxpayer can either accept, reject or keep the said records pending by selecting the action from the header and click on the SAVE button. 
2.1.8. You can also download excel file by clicking on DOWNLOAD EXCEL button and can reset the selected records by clicking on the RESET button.  When one or more record is selected for action RESET button is enabled. 
 
Click on the BACK TO SUMMARY button to go back to summary page.

 

 

2.1.9. Taxpayer can take actions in similar way as mentioned above for all other tables as well. For example:

 

1. Click on the B2B-Credit Notes hyperlink.

 

 

2. Taxpayer will navigate to B2B-Credit Notes page and all the records will be displayed on the screen. Scroll right to see all the options available on the table. 

 

 

3. To accept a record, click on the A hyperlink.

 

 

4. The following pop up will be displayed. 

 

 

5. Select Yes (Full / Partial reversal) option and click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

Note: You can click on PROCEED button only after answering the mentioned question.

 

6. If the taxpayer selects Yes, the following columns in the Amount declared by taxpayer for ITC reduction for the selected records become editable, the ENTER REMARK button will be disabled.

 

 

Note: If you select option No for a record, a button ENTER REMARK will be enabled immediately at the record level.

 

 

7. Enter a value less than the auto-populated value, on entering the value in respective column ENTER REMARK button will be enabled.

 

 
Note 1: If you enter a value more than the auto populated value, the following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 2: If you keep any one tax field blank, the following error message will be displayed.

 

 

Note 3: If you enter zero and less than zero (negative values) in any one of the tax head, the following error message will be displayed.

 

 

8. After entering the values in respective columns, click on the ENTER REMARK button.

 

 

9. The following screen will be displayed, enter the Remarks and click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

Note 1: If a record contains a remark, you can view it by clicking on the Remark hyperlink associated with that record. When you click on the link, a pop-up window will open displaying the saved remark. The pop-up includes a CANCEL button that you can use to exit the window.

 

 

 

Note 2: If you click on the SAVE button without entering remark, the following error message will be displayed.

 

 

10. On clicking the Save button, the following message will be displayed on the screen. Click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

11. Click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

12. After saving the records, Status will change to Accepted. 

 

 

13. Similarly, to reject any record, click on the R button.

 

 

14. On clicking the R button, the following Remarks popup will appear on the screen. You can enter any remark and click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

15. You can check the added remark by clicking on the Remark hyperlink. 

 

 
16. Click on the SAVE button to save the record. 

 

 

17. On clicking Save button, the following message will be displayed on the screen. Click on the PROCEED button. 

 

 

18. Click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

19. After saving the records, Status will change to Rejected.

 

 

20. Now, to mark any record pending, click on the P button and then Save button.

 

 

21. The following message will be displayed on the screen. Click on the PROCEED button. 

 

 

22. Click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

23. After saving the records, Status will change to Pending. 

 

 

24. Taxpayer can filter the list by entering GSTIN of Supplier in respective field or by selecting Invoice Type, Status, Source, Date, Place of Supply, Whether ITC to be reduced from the respective dropdown list. Click on the APPLY button to apply the filter or click on the RESET button to reset the filters or click on the CLOSE button to close the filter.

 

 

25. To remove the applied filter, click on the cross icon. 

 

 

26. Taxpayer can also display or hide columns by selecting an option under the dropdown of Display/Hide Columns.

 

 

27. Click on BACK TO SUMMARY button to go back to summary page.

 

2.1.10. Taxpayer can take actions in similar way as mentioned above for all other tables as well. For example:

 

1. Click on the B2B-Credit Notes (Amendments) hyperlink.

 

 

2. Taxpayer will navigate to B2B-Credit Notes Amendments page and all the records will be displayed on the screen. Scroll right to see all the options available on the table. 

 

 

 

3. To accept a record, click on the A hyperlink.

 

 

4. The following pop up will be displayed. 

 

 

5. Select Yes (Full / Partial reversal) option and click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

6. If the taxpayer selects Yes, the following columns in the Amount declared by taxpayer for ITC reduction for the selected records become editable, the ENTER REMARK button will be disabled.

 

 

Note: If you select option No for a record, a button ENTER REMARK will be enabled immediately at the record level.

 

 

7. Enter a value less than the auto-populated value, on entering the value in respective column ENTER REMARK button will be enabled.

 

Note 1: If you enter a value more than the auto populated value, the following error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

Note 2: If you keep any one tax field blank, the following error message will be displayed.

 

 

Note 3: If you enter zero and less than zero (negative values) in any one of the tax head, the following error message will be displayed.

 

 

8. After entering the values in respective columns, click on the ENTER REMARK button.

 

 

9. The following screen will be displayed, enter the Remarks and click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

Note 1: If a record contains a remark, you can view it by clicking the Remark hyperlink associated with that record. When you click the link, a pop-up window will open displaying the saved remark. The pop-up includes a CANCEL button that you can use to exit the window.

 

 

 

Note 2: If you click on the SAVE button without entering remark, the following error message will be displayed.

 

 

10. On clicking the Save button, the following message will be displayed on the screen. Click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

While entering a value in the Tax Heads column, if the value exceeds the allowed delta value and you attempt to save the record, a warning pop-up will be displayed.

 

 

 

11. Click on the PROCEED button.

 

 

2.1.11. Taxpayer can download IMS details by clicking on DOWNLOAD IMS DETAILS (EXCEL) button in IMS summary page. Taxpayer can go back to IMS dashboard by clicking on BACK TO DASHBORD button. 

 

 

On clicking on DOWNLOAD IMS DETAILS (EXCEL) button in IMS summary page, following message will be displayed on the screen. 

 

 

If you again click on DOWNLOAD IMS DETAILS (EXCEL) button in IMS summary page, following message shall be displayed:

 

 

After some time, if you click of DOWNLOAD IMS DETAILS (EXCEL) button in IMS summary page, system will provide the downloadable links just below the download button. In case the number of records are exceeding certain limit, then system will chunk the details and system will provide more than one downloadable link. Click on Click here to download file hyperlink to download the file. 

 

 

On click of Click here to download file hyperlink following excel file will be downloaded with respective sheets for each table of IMS.

 

 

2.1.12. For monthly taxpayers, GST system will generate GSTR-2B on 14th of subsequent month. 
COMPUTE GSTR-2B button will be disabled till 14th of subsequent month. COMPUTE GSTR-2B button will get enabled after 14th of the subsequent month by system if the taxpayer takes/changes any action on the IMS. Taxpayer can click on the COMPUTE GSTR-2B button to re-compute the GSTR-2B. Post this, taxpayer can navigate to GSTR-2B to view the latest ITC details. 

 

 

On clicking of COMPUTE GSTR-2B button a popup will be displayed on the screen. Click on the AGREE AND CONTINUE button to compute.

 

 

Note: 
Taxpayer can check the status of recomputing request by clicking on this refresh button next to HELP button. By default, refresh will remain disabled, and it will enable only after clicking on Recompute GSTR 2B button. This button will get disable again once success/ failure message of appear on screen.

 

Notes in respect to Inward supplies: 
a)    If a taxpayer opts out of composition scheme and becomes normal taxpayer, all the inward supplies records dated on or after the composition opt out date will flow into IMS.
b)    It is mandatory to take action on original record and file the respective GSTR 3B before taking action on amended record (amended through GSTR-1A/GSTR-1) when original and amended record belongs to 2 different GSTR 2B return period. If both the records belong to same period’s 2B, only amended record will be considered for ITC calculation of GSTR 2B
c)    Irrespective of the action taken by recipient taxpayer in IMS, supplier can edit saved records in form GSTR-1/IFF/GSTR-1A, till he files the same. Once the supplier edits saved records, GST system will reset the record’s status on IMS and the said record will appear under No Action taken. Recipient taxpayer can take action on the said edited record in IMS.
d)    Similarly, if supplier deletes any saved record before filing GSTR-1/IFF/GSTR-1A, then GST system will remove the said record from IMS Inward supplies of recipient. 

 

IMS Dashboard - Outward Supplies Tile

 

2.2.1. Click on VIEW button on Outward Supplies tile to view status of outward supplies reported based on action taken by your recipient.

 

 

2.2.2.  Outward Supplies page will be displayed on the screen. Select Financial Year, Return Period and Return Type from the respective dropdown list and all three fields are mandatory. Click on SEARCH button to proceed further.

 

 

2.2.3. List of all B2B outward supplies reported in GSTR-1/IFF/GSTR-1A will be displayed on the screen in tabular manner. Taxpayer can view the advisory by clicking on VIEW ADVISORY button and can take help by clicking on HELP button. 

 

 

Note: 
a) Taxpayer can download the IMS details for the outward supplies in excel format by clicking on DOWNLOAD IMS DETAILS(EXCEL) button.

 

 

b) On clicking of DOWNLOAD IMS DETAILS(EXCEL) button, a message will be displayed on the screen. Wait for some minutes and the file will be generated.

 

 

c) When the file generation is completed, Click here to download file hyperlink will be displayed on the screen. Click on the Click here to download file hyperlink to download the file in your system. On clicking of Click here to download file hyperlink a zip file will be downloaded in your system and that zip file will contain the generated file. If the number of records is large then that zip file will have multiple files.

 

 

2.2.4. Taxpayer can view the B2B supplies reported in each table by clicking on the table heading hyperlink or by clicking number hyperlink under Number of Records columns. Number hyperlink under Number of Records column represents the count of records added in the respective table.

 

 

Note: 
a) If number of records in the table are more than 500 then on clicking on the table heading hyperlink or on clicking number hyperlink under Number of Records column, Advance Search option will be displayed on the screen.
 

 

b) Click on Download hyperlink to download all the records of selected table in excel format.

 

 

On clicking of Download hyperlink, a message will be displayed on the screen. Wait for some time.

 

 

When the file is generated, Click here to download file hyperlink will be displayed on the screen. Click on the Click here to download file hyperlink to download the file in your system. On clicking of Click here to download file hyperlink a zip file will be downloaded in your system and that zip file will contain the generated file. If the number of records is large then that zip file will have multiple files.

 

 

c) Taxpayer can search for any particular record by entering the required details on the Advance Search screen. After entering the details click on SEARCH button.

 

 

On clicking of SEARCH button, the record details will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

If the data entered by you is invalid or the record does not exist related to the entered data, an error message will be displayed on the screen.

 

 

2.2.5. On clicking of hyperlink (when record counnt is up to 500) all the records reported in the table will be displayed on the screen. All the invoices added in table 4A, 4B, 6B, 6C-B2B, SEZ, DE Invoices in GSTR1/1A/IFF will be reflected here. 

 

Taxpayer can filter the list by clicking on Filter field or by entering keywords in Search field. Taxpayer can navigate to summary page by clicking on BACK TO SUMMARY button.

 

 

 

 

Note 1: Supplier taxpayer can view the status that is the action taken by recipients on a particular record as No Action, Accepted, Rejected or Pending under Status column.

 

 

Note 2: On clicking of Filter option filter option will be displayed on the screen. Enter Recipient GSTIN in respective field, select Invoice Type and Invoice Date, Reported in Form, Status, from the respective dropdown list. After applying filter click on APPLY button to proceed or click on RESET button to reset or CLOSE button to close the filter.

 

 

To cancel the applied filter, click on the cross icon.

 

 

 

Note 3: Taxpayer can download the details of records in excel format by clicking on DOWNLOAD EXCEL button. If you have applied any filter than on clicking of DOWNLOAD EXCEL button filtered records will be downloaded in the system.
 

 

Note 4: Taxpayer can also see the remarks in the Remarks by Recipient row by clicking on the Remark hyperlink.

 

 

2.2.6. Taxpayer can view the invoice details for all other tables as well as mentioned above.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[102] Invoice Management System (IMS) Dashboard - FAQs
URL: https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/userguide/returns/index.htm#t=FAQ_IMS_Dashboard.htm

Skip To Main Content
 
Goods and Services Tax

FAQs > Invoice Management System
IMS Dashboard
1. What is Invoice Management System (IMS)?

Invoice Management System (IMS) is a facility in GST system, where the invoices/records saved/filed by the supplier in GSTR-1/1A/IFF, can be accepted, rejected or kept pending by recipients in order to correctly avail ITC. 

2. How can recipients access IMS dashboard?

To access IMS dashboard navigate to GST Portal Dashboard > Services > Returns > Invoice Management System (IMS) Dashboard.

3. From when can taxpayers access IMS dashboard?

IMS will be launched on the GST Portal from 1st October 2024 and will be available to the taxpayers for taking actions on the received invoices/records from 14th October 2024 onwards.

4. What all records will be available on IMS dashboard for taking an action?

All the saved or filed original invoices/records and their amendments by suppliers through GSTR1/1A/IFF will be available to the recipient for taking actions in IMS dashboard. However, the documents where ITC is not eligible either due to:
i. POS rule or
ii. Section 16(4) of the CGST Act, will not appear on IMS dashboard and will directly go to ‘ITC Not Available’ section of GSTR-2B

5. What will happen to the accepted and rejected record?

All the accepted/rejected records belonging to a particular GSTR-2B period will be removed from IMS on filing of GSTR-3B for that particular period. Only the pending record and the invoices/records belonging to future tax period will remain in IMS.

6. When will the documents be available on IMS dashboard?

The documents will be available in IMS as soon as they are saved by the supplier in their corresponding GSTR-1/1A/IFF.

7. When can the recipient taxpayer take action on a record?

As soon as a supplier/ taxpayer saves an Invoice/ records in GSTR-1/1A/IFF, it is shown and is available to the recipient taxpayer in IMS for taking actions.

8. What all documents will not be made available in IMS but will be part of GSTR-2B?

Below records will not be part of IMS but will directly flow to GSTR-2B:
1. Document flowing from the following forms: GSTR 5 and GSTR 6
2. ICEGATE documents
3. RCM records 
4. Document where ITC is ineligible due to: POS rules and Section 16(4) of CGST Act
5. Documents where ITC to be reversed on account of Rule 37A

9. Who will have access to IMS functionality?

Taxpayers registered as normal taxpayers (including SEZ unit/Developer) and casual taxpayers will be able to access IMS functionality.

10. What actions recipient taxpayer can take on an IMS?

Below actions are allowed to take in IMS:
i. Accept
ii. Reject
iii. Pending
Note: By default all the records will flow into “No Action” category and records with “No Action” will be deemed accepted at the time of GSTR-2B generation.

11. Are there any invoices/records where pending action is not allowed in IMS?

Yes, for the following 4 scenarios, pending action would not be available : -
A. Original Credit note rejected by the recipient 
B. Upward amendment of the credit note rejected by the recipient irrespective of the action taken by recipient on the original credit note 
C. Downward amendment of the credit note rejected by the recipient if original credit note was rejected by him, 
D. Downward amendment of Invoice/ Debit note rejected by the recipient where original Invoice/ Debit note was accepted by him and respective GSTR 3B has also been filed 

12. Can I take actions multiple time on a document?

Yes, action can be taken multiple times on an invoice/record before filling of GSTR 3B. In case of multiple actions on a record, latest action will overwrite the previous action. However, the action taken will be frozen at the time of filing the corresponding GSTR-3B by the recipient. 

13. What happens to the original record if the same record is amended by the supplier?

If original and amended record belongs to 2 different GSTR 2B return period, then it is mandatory to take action on original record and file the respective GSTR 3B before taking action on amended record (amended through GSTR-1/1A/IFF). In case if recipient take the action on amended record first then system will not allow to save the action in IMS.In case both the original records and amended records belong to same period GSTR-2B, the action taken on amended records will prevail over the action taken on original record.

14. What will happen to documents on which taxpayers has taken an action on IMS?

The documents will be treated in following manner based on different kind of action:
i. Accept –Accepted records will become part of ‘ITC Available’ section of respective GSTR 2B. ITC of accepted records will auto-populate in 
GSTR 3B.
ii. Reject –Rejected records will become part of ‘ITC Rejected’ section of respective GSTR 2B. ITC of rejected records will not auto-populate in GSTR 3B.
iii. Pending –Pending records will not become part of GSTR 2B and GSTR 3B. Such records will remain on IMS dashboard till the time same is accepted or rejected or till the time timeline prescribed in Section 16(4) of CGST Act.
iv. No Action - records with “No Action” status will be deemed accepted at the time of GSTR-2B generation

15. Which documents will be considered for GSTR-2B generation?

All the filed and accepted (no action will be treated as deemed accepted) or rejected records will be considered for GSTR-2B generation as per the cut-off  dated of GSTR-2B. Saved records unless filed will be considered as “no action committed and thus will flow as the status of the record that existed before saving for GSTR-2B generation.

16. What if recipient has taken an action on a document in saved status but the same is edited/changed by the supplier before filing his GSTR-1?

In case a saved record is edited before filing of GSTR-1 by the supplier, the amended record will replace the saved document in IMS and the action taken on such record by the recipient will be reset. Thus, the edited record will be available for recipient for fresh action in IMS. Similarly, if a document is deleted before filing of GSTR-1/1A/IFF by supplier then such document will be removed from IMS also.

17. Will Reverse Charge document received from registered suppliers also form part of IMS?

No, RCM invoices are not part of IMS but will continue to be part of GSTR-2B as it is being reflected today.

18. What all details can taxpayer view on the IMS dashboard?

The IMS has two different view:
i. Recipient view: As a recipient, a taxpayer will have an “inward supply” view to see all the specified documents which are saved or filed by your respective supplier. These documents will be available for actions by the recipient.
ii. Supplier view: As a supplier, a taxpayer will have an “Outward supply” view to see actions taken on all the specified documents by their respective recipient.
*It will be made available shortly.

19. What happens if recipient reject a record?

1. If the recipient rejects the record before filling of GSTR 1 by supplier, then the invoice/record can be edited and supplier can file the GSTR 1 with same detail. This edited record will be made available in the IMS for action by the recipient.
2. If the recipient rejects after filling of GSTR 1 by supplier, then the supplier needs to amend/add the invoice/record in GSTR-1A or in subsequent GSTR 1/ IFF with same detail. Amended record will be made available in the IMS for action by the recipient.

20. What will happen to the documents on IMS dashboard on filing of GSTR 3B by recipient?

All the accepted/rejected records belonging to a particular GSTR-2B period will be removed from IMS on filing of GSTR-3B for that particular period.

21. What will happen to the documents kept as pending in IMS dashboard?

Pending records will continue to be in IMS till the time of cut-off date as per section 16(4) of CGST Act, 2017.
Once records crossed the timeline prescribed in section 16(4) of CGST Act, it will be removed from IMS.

22. Can I download all the data available in IMS?

Yes, excel download facility is available to download the IMS data.

23. What is draft GSTR 2B?

GSTR-2B will continue to be generated on 14th of every month with the same logic as current GSTR-2B which will now be considered as draft GSTR 2B. This draft will consist of all the accepted / deemed accepted records and rejected records. Here, rejected records are for view only and will not flow in GSTR-3B.

24. Can recipient take any action after generation of draft GSTR 2B?

Yes, the recipient will be allowed to take an action on any record available in draft GSTR 2B also, till the filing of GSTR-3B. In such cases, at the time of filling GSTR-3B recipient will require to recompute his GSTR 2B to have impact of actions taken after 14th in his GSTR-3B.

25. Is there any scenario where draft GSTR 2B will not be generated by system on 14th of subsequent month?

Yes, in case the previous period GSTR 3B is not filed by the taxpayer then the system will not generate their draft GSTR 2B on 14th of the subsequent month. However, the taxpayer can generate their GSTR 2B from the IMS dashboard after filing their previous GSTR 3B.

26. How many times can GSTR 2B be recomputed/regenerated?

Before filling of GSTR 3B, there is no restriction on number of times such GSTR-2B can be recomputed/regenerated.

27. What about GSTR-2B for quarterly taxpayers?

For quarterly taxpayers, GSTR-2B will not be generated for the months M1 and M2 of the quarter. However, GSTR-2BQ for the quarter (M1, M2 and M3 combined) will be generated on 14th of Q+1 month and re-computation of 2B will be allowed on or after 14th of Q+1 month till filing of corresponding GSTR-3B. The same logic as is there for monthly GSTR-2B / 3B will be applicable.

28. What will happen to GSTR-2A?

GSTR-2A shall continue to be generated as it is. 

29. Is it mandatory to re-compute GSTR 2B?

If there is any change made by recipient on IMS dashboard after draft GSTR 2B generation by system, it is mandatory to re-compute GSTR 2B. 

30. How to take an action on records available on IMS dashboard?

1. Action on Individual record: To take action on individual record, recipient can select the action by clicking on the radio button available at line-item level and then click on save button to save the action taken.
2. Action on multiple records: To take action on multiple records in one go, recipient can select multiple records or all the records through check-box option available on screen. After selecting multiple records, system will enable main action buttons on heading of action radio buttons with count of selected records. Through these action buttons recipient can take action on multiple records in one go
Note: On all the multiple selected records, only one type of action can be taken.

31. What will happen if the recipient rejects the Tax Invoice or Debit Note for the supplies of FY 23-24 which was eligible for GSTR 2B of Oct’24, given the deadline to avail the ITC by 30th November?

Taxpayer are advised to reconcile their records before filling of their GSTR 1 for October 2024 tax period for which due date is 11th November 2024. The Taxpayer can accept/reject the record on IMS after due verification. The ITC for the rejected record will not flow to GSTR 2B for Oct’24. However, recipient can change the action from rejected to accepted in IMS and recompute GSTR 2B at the time of filing GSTR 3B and take corresponding ITC in the GSTR 3B for Oct’24.

32. Can a supplier amend FCM invoice to RCM invoice and what will the impact on the ITC?

Yes, the supplier can amend an Invoice from FCM to RCM subject to the time limit as per GST law. The system shall reduce the ITC of the amended FCM Invoice in case the said invoice was accepted by the recipient. Further, the RCM invoice shall flow to GSTR 2B of the recipient.

33. Can the place of supply be changed by the supplier in the GSTR 1 and what will be the impact on the ITC?

Yes, place of supply can be changed by the supplier in the GSTR 1 subject to the time limit given in the GST law. Further if the ITC become ineligible due to change in place of supply, then recipient should reverse the ITC in the Table 4B1. 

34. What will happen if the recipient rejects the original Credit Note or upward amended Credit Note?

If the recipient rejects the Credit note and furnished the GSTR 3B then the corresponding liability will be added to the supplier liability in the GSTR 3B of subsequent tax period.

IMS Dashboard > Import of Goods
1. How does Bill of Entry (BoE) data flow into IMS?

Bill of Entry data are updated in the IMS on near real-time basis from ICEGATE system. The following types of BoE data available in IMS:

a. Original BoE Records (for both import from overseas & from SEZ)

b. Value amendment records for BoE where taxable value and/or tax amounts were amended by importer (for both import from overseas & from SEZ)

c. GSTIN amendment records for BoE where the GSTIN was amended by importer (for both import from overseas & from SEZ)

The above-mentioned types of BoE records will be displayed under respective headings as below:

 

S.No.	Type of Amendment	Display in IMS
1	Original BoE 	IMPG/IMPGSEZ
2	Value Amendment	IMPGA/IMPGSEZA (Type of Amendment column will show the term “Value”)
3	GSTIN amendment
 	IMPGA/IMPGSEZA (Type of Amendment column will show the term “GSTIN”)

 

2. Which BoEs will become part of GSTR-2B from the IMS dashboard?

BoE records will be considered for GSTR-2B of a particular ITC period when following conditions are satisfied:

a)    BOEs available on IMS with following statuses

Accepted
No Action Taken

b) Records coming from ICEGATE to GST system from 14th of the month to 13th of subsequent month i.e., before 2B generation date will become part of that month’s GSTR 2B.

c) Reference date of that BoE is up to last date of that month.

3. How is the handling of value amendments of Bill of Entry (BoE) done in the GST system?

•    Taxpayer can amend taxable value and IGST/cess via ICEGATE; such amendments are sent to GST system as value amendment.
•    Multiple value amendments can be made for a BoE.
•    Value amended record will appear under IMPGA/IMPGSEZA in IMS dashboard.
•    If multiple value amendments are made in the same or different ITC month, only the latest value amended record is shown in IMS (no separate entries) and earlier value amendment will be removed automatically from IMS.
•    Original BoE record remains under IMPG/IMPGSEZ tab.
•    On generation of GSTR-2B for a month, the action taken on the latest amendment record for that ITC month will be considered and will flow to GSTR-2B accordingly.
•    Upon flow of value amendment record to GSTR-2B, the relevant original record will also be removed from IMS dashboard of the taxpayer.
•    If a record is kept pending and GSTR-3B is filed, it stays in IMS for future months.

4. How is the handling of GSTIN amendments of Bill of Entry (BoE) done in the GST system?
Taxpayers are allowed to amend GSTIN mentioned in the BoE through ICEGATE portal. Upon amendment of GSTIN, such details are shared by ICEGATE to GST system
On processing of the GSTIN amendment in GST system, the IMS dashboard and ITC flow of both the GSTINs (previous and amended GSTINs)are impacted depending on the action taken on the original record and GSTR-3B filing status of the incorrect GSTIN. Further details are provided in the FAQs below.
5. What are the Actions allowed for GSTIN amendment records?
The actions available to the amended GSTIN will be Accept & Pending.
For previous GSTIN, in case the ITC was already passed (by accepting the previous record & filing GSTR-3B), then upon GSTIN amendment, a reversal entry will be made in the IMS dashboard of the correct GSTIN under IMPGA/IMPGSEZA category in the dashboard. For such reversal entry, pending action will not be allowed. However, the previous amended GSTIN will be given to change the amount of ITC reversal on acceptance of such reversal entry.
6. How is the ITC reversal entry on GSTIN amendment displayed in the IMS dashboard of previous GSTIN?

The reversal entry is shown in the following manner: 
a.    Under IMPGA/IMPGSEZA category of IMS dashboard 
b.    Highlighted in Blue color.
c.    Type of Amendment column will be “GSTIN”.
d.    Total Taxable Value, Integrated Tax and Cess columns will be auto populated.

7. What happens when GSTIN amendment record is accepted by previous GSTIN in IMS?

Upon selecting the Accept radio button for a GSTIN amendment record, a pop-up will be asked:
“Do you need to change the amount of ITC to be reversed for selected Bill of Entry due to change in GSTIN?”
You can choose:
•    Yes – In case the ITC on original record was not availed or availed partially. Two editable fields will appear: 
o    Integrated Tax
o    Cess
ITC reversal only to the amount provided in above filed will be done from previous GSTIN in current GSTR-2B.
•    No – No additional fields will appear, and ITC will be reversed based on auto-populated values.

8. What additional fields are available for the taxpayer (with previous GSTIN) in the reversal entry?

In case the previous GSTIN wishes to declare a different amount for ITC reversal in case of GSTIN amendment, the following new columns shall be displayed:
a. “Whether ITC needs to be reduced for the selected Bill of Entry?” with “Yes” option
b. The previous GSTIN can provide the amount of ITC reversal in column “Amount declared by taxpayer for ITC reduction” under which, there will be 2 sub-columns for Integrated Tax and Cess.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
